   [1][logo.gif]
   [masthead.gif]

    Log In
     * Username: ____________
       Password: ____________
       [ ] Remember me next time
       Log In
     * [2]I forgot my password!
     * [3]Register
     * [4]Latin Club
     * [5]Annual Latin Banquet
     * [6]SAS Latin Podcasts (iTunes)
     * [7]SAS Latin Podcasts (.mp3 files)
     * [8]Magnificat Rehearsal Tracks
    JCL
     * [9]Academic Contest Archives
     * [10]Buy source books for JCL contests

    Upcoming
    Links
     * [11]SAS Latin Placement Exam Reviews
     * [12]NJCL
     * [13]TSJCL
     * [14]Certamen for beginners
     * [15]Noun Declension Practice
     * [16]Grammar Review
     * [17]Podcasts (.mp3 files)

   Word of the Week:
   a. d. XII
   Kal. Mai.
   20 Apr 15

National Latin Exam Committee Honors Upper School Students

   On March 11th, Latin students at the Upper school took the National
   Latin Exam. They were joined by and competed with over 153,000 students
   from 50 states and 20 foreign countries including Australia, Canada,
   China, Croatia, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, New Zealand, Oman, the
   Philippines, Poland, Singapore, South Africa, South Korea, Spain,
   Switzerland, Taiwan, the United Kingdom, and Zimbabwe. There are
   separate exams for different levels of Latin, and students in each
   level are awarded medals (gold and silver) for high achievement.
   Thirty-three Upper School students were recognized with some kind of
   award. Thirteen students received Gold Medals and eight received Silver
   Medals, the two highest awards on the exam.
   Gold Medals
   Hana Arriaga
   Alex Bradley
   Bryce Deskins
   Henry Gaudin
   Robbie Li
   Rachel Nezzer
   Zack Osborne
   Katherine Salinas
   Walton Schmidt
   Cameron Scott
   Olivia Smith
   Wesley Wiedenmeier
   Jonathan Zornio
   Silver Medals
   Mark Ashworth
   Christian Erben
   Caroline Graves
   Will Josowitz
   Olivia Nicklos
   Annika Ostrom
   Pavan Reddy
   Matthew Tobias
   Magna Cum Laude
   Will Nickerson
   Katie Cowan
   Stevie Gibson
   William McKinnerney
   Janson Shrock
   Cum Laude
   Adam Alvarado
   Molly Fox
   Tom Hogan
   Gavin Massengale
   Pouya Mohammadi
   Pritam Reddy
   As a seniors receiving a gold medals, Bryce Deskins, Zack Osborne, and
   Wesley Wiedenmeier, will also receive scholarship applications for the
   prestigious NLE scholarship.
   a. d. VIIII
   Kal. Mar.
   21 Feb 15

St. Andrew's Successfully Hosts Area F Convention with Advanced Certamen
Winning Austin-Area Championship

   On Friday, February 20 and Saturday, February 21 the St. Andrewâs Upper
   School Latin Club hosted and competed in the Area F Latin Convention.
   The Middle School certamen team comprised of Tristram Coffin, Jack
   Cowan, Henry Erlinger, Gina Perkins, and Will Snider won second place
   by one question in an incredibly close final round. The Intermediate
   certamen team comprised of Layne Alam, Jack Guttell, and Gavin
   Massengale also won second place. The Advanced team comprised of Bryce
   Deskins, Rachel Nezzer, Katherine Salinas, Walton Schmidt, and Jonathan
   Zornio, plus alternates Max Bartee and William McKinnerney, played an
   amazing final round, won first place and will combine with the LASA
   team to represent the Austin area at the state tournament.
   As a school, St. Andrew's Upper School took second in the overall
   Academic sweepstakes and third place in Olympika sweepstakes,
   calculated by assigning points for first, second, and third place
   finishes. One student was recognized for having the highest score at
   any level on his tests. Bryce Deskins was recognized for having the
   high score on the Roman History test. Bryce was awarded a scholarship
   for $519 ($1 for every convention attendee) in recognition of his high
   score achievement on the Decathlon test out of all the seniors at the
   convention. Additionally, Katherine Salinas got the highest score on
   the Pentathlon of all students in level III, a great accomplishment as
   every student at the convention takes that contest. Katherine also did
   a fabulous job of serving as Area F Chairperson and hosting the
   convention. She has worked for a year to make sure that the convention
   ran smoothly and that everyone had a good experience.
   The individual awards follow:
   Academic and Classical Civilization Awards
   1st Place
   Layne Alam Greek History
   Layne Alam Play
   Hana Arriaga Coupleâs Costume
   Tristram Coffin Boysâ Costume
   Jack Cowan Roman History - 1/2 A
   Bryce Deskins Roman History - 4
   Emma Erben Latin Derivatives - 1/2 B
   Caroline Graves Play
   Will Jozowitz Play
   Robbie Li Grammar - 1
   Robbie Li Vocal Solo
   Pouya Mohammadi Coupleâs Costume
   Rachel Nezzer Mythology
   Rachel Nezzer Play
   Will Nickerson Dramatic Interpretation
   Zack Osborne Latin Derivatives - 4
   Annika Ostrom Roman Life
   Pavan Reddy Latin Literature
   Katherine Salinas Roman History - 3
   Walton Schmidt Mottoes
   Walton Schmidt Play
   Will Snider Ancient Geography & Monuments
   Jonathan Zornio Advanced Grammar
   Jonathan Zornio Play
   2nd Place
   Jamal Aghazedeh Sight Recitation - 2
   Hannah Bray Latin Derivatives
   Noelle Brimble Dramatic Interpretation, Advanced
   Victoria Curtin Latin Oratory
   Bryce Deskins Decathlon
   Christian Erben Vocal Solo
   Henry Gaudin Greek Derivatives
   Henry Gaudin Mottoes
   Kathryn Gernstein Latin Literature - 5+
   Caroline Graves Sight Recitation - 4
   Jack Guttell Dramatic Interpretation - 2
   Tom Hogan Greek Life and Literature
   Tom Hogan Mythology - 3
   Henry Howard Boysâ Costume
   Robbie Li Reading Comprehension - level 1
   Grace McKinnerney Mythology - level 1/2 A
   Madeleine Mele Reading Comprehension, Advanced Prose
   Will Nickerson Mythology - 1
   Katherine Salinas Latin Literature
   Walton Schmidt Sight Recitation - 3
   Will Snider Roman History
   Wesley Wiedenmeier Advanced Grammar
   3rd Place
   Layne Alam Mythology - 2
   Tres Allen Reading Comprehension, Advanced Poetry
   Hana Arriaga Advanced Grammar - 3
   Noelle Brimble Roman Life
   Andrew Buller Sight Recitation - 1/2 A
   Tristram Coffin Ancient Geography & Monuments - 1/2 A
   Molly Fox Decathlon
   Kathryn Gernstein Coupleâs Costume
   Stephen Gibson Latin Literature - 2
   Jacob Hinz Roman History
   Henry Howard Greek History
   Gavin Massengale Latin Oratory
   Grace McKinnerney Mythology - level 1/2 A
   Annika Mele Coupleâs Costume
   Annika Mele Advanced Grammar - 5+
   Rachel Nezzer Sight Recitation - 3
   Annika Ostrom Monochromatic Art
   Pritam Reddy Reading Comprehension, Advanced Prose
   Taylor Thompson Ancient Geography & Monuments - 3
   Wesley Wiedenmeier Reading Comprehension, Advanced Prose
   Receiving summa cum laude awards for the Pentathlon were: Adrian Almy,
   Hana Arriaga, Tristram Coffin, Jack Cowan, Katie Cowan, Bryce Deskins,
   Emma Erben, Henry Erlinger, Will Josowitz, Rachel Nezzer, Will
   Nickerson, Zack Osborne, Katherine Salinas, Walton Schmidt, Will
   Snider, Janson Shrock, Matthew Tobias, Wesley Wiedenmeier, and Jonathan
   Zornio.
   Receiving maxima cum laude awards for the Pentathlon were: Adam
   Alvarado, Brendan Bowyer, Harrison Boyt, Noelle Brimble, Hannah Bray,
   Andrew Buller, Henry Gaudin, Kathryn Gernstein, Stephen Gibson,
   Caroline Graves, Will Greskovich, Tom Hogan, Henry Howard, Robbie Li,
   Grace McKinnerney, Annika Mele, Pouya Mohammadi, Gina Perkins, and
   Taylor Thompson.
   Receiving magna cum laude awards for the Pentathlon were: Jamal
   Aghazedeh, Layne Alam, Tres Allen, Harrison Benson, Alex Bradley,
   Elizabeth Curtin, Christian Erben, Molly Fox, James Gernstein, Colton
   Gunnarson, Jack Guttell, Jacob Hinz, Maya Kidd, Annika Ostrom, Pavan
   Reddy, Pritam Reddy, and Ben Sirizzotti.
   Receiving cum laude awards for the Pentathlon were: Max Bartee, Stefan
   Bentzin, Joel Campbell, Chandon Chhikara, Victoria Curtin, Kate Fox,
   Fletcher Lowin, William McKinnerney, Madeleine Mele, Nolan McNearney,
   and Jackie Smith.
   Olympika
   1st Place
   Tres Allen 440M Relay
   Tres Allen Softball Throw
   Tres Allen Running Broad Jump
   Max Bartee 200 M Run
   Max Bartee 440 M Relay
   Harrison Boyt Frisbee Throw
   Noah Mele 440 M Relay
   Will Nickerson 440 M Relay
   2nd Place
   Tres Allen 200 M Run
   Adrian Almy 440 M Relay, middle school
   Harrison Boyt 440 M Relay, high school
   Tristram Coffin 440 M Relay, middle school
   Pavan Reddy 440 M Relay, high school
   Pritam Reddy 50 M Dash
   Pritam Reddy 440 M Relay, high school
   Ben Sirizzotti 440 M Relay, high school
   Will Snider 50 M Run
   Will Snider 100 M Run
   Will Snider 440 M Run, middle school
   3rd Place
   Pavan Reddy 100 M Run
   Will Snider 200 M Run
   Ludi Scrabble 1st place: Emma Erben
   2nd place: Jonathan Zornio
   We so appreciate the many, many faculty, parents, students and alumni
   who helped us to host the event. We are so grateful for all the help
   with testing, supervision, judging, and more. The convention could not
   have happened without the entire St. Andrewâs community supporting us.
   Thanks also go to Sheri Zornio, our Certamen team parent.
   Congratulations to all the winners and bonam fortunam omnibus at State.
   The State Convention will be held on March 26-29 at Amarillo High
   School.
   a. d. V
   Kal. Feb.
   28 Jan 15

St. Andrew's Students Perform Well on NCEE

   Back in December, Latin students at the Upper and Middle schools took
   the National Classical Etymology Exam. They were joined by and competed
   with students from across the United States. There is one exam, and
   awards are based on the level of Latin in which a student is enrolled.
   Students in each level can be awarded gold, silver, or bronze medals
   for outstanding results. Eighteen Upper School students and fifteen
   Middle School students were recognized.
   Gold Medalists
   Hannah Bray (MS)
   Emma Erben (MS)
   Bryce Deskins (US)
   William McKinnerney (US)
   Jacob Murphy (MS)
   Rachel Nezzer (US)
   Gina Perkins (MS)
   Katherine Salinas (US)
   Olivia Smith (US)
   Jonathan Zornio (US)
   Silver Medalists
   Adrian Almy (MS)
   Henry Erlinger (MS)
   Madison McWilliams (MS)
   Pouya Mohammadi (US)
   Sina Mohammadi (MS)
   Walton Schmidt (US)
   Will Snider (MS)
   Bronze Medalists
   Hana Arriaga (US)
   Duval Bingham (MS)
   Andrew Buller (MS)
   Jack Cowan (MS)
   Ivan Crowson (MS)
   Grace McKinnerney (MS)
   Olivia Nicklos (US)
   Cameron Scott (US)
   Natalie Sequin (MS)
   Taylor Thompson (US)
   a. d. VIII
   Kal. Nov.
   25 Oct 14

Certamen Teams Have Good Showing at Annual Cru Classic

   This past weekend, teams from all over Austin competed in the annual
   Crusader Classic Certamen tournament. Every year St. Andrew's and St.
   Michael's switch off on hosting the tournament, bringing the event back
   to the beautiful St. Andrew's Upper School campus this past Saturday
   afternoon. This year, the St. Andrew's teams did quite well on their
   home turf, with Novice and Advanced placing 2nd in the final round,
   barely edged out of first place. The Advanced team was composed of
   Captain Bryce Deskins, Katherine Salinas, Walton Schmidt, and Jonathan
   Zornio. The Novice team, led by Captain Robbie Li, was rounded out by
   Adam Alvarado, Will Nickerson, Will Greskovich, and Ben Sirizzotti.
   Congratulations to all the students who played in the tournament for
   representing the school so well.
   Thanks also go to our army of student and parent volunteers who set up,
   ran, and cleaned up after the tournament. Special thanks to Dawn Bowyer
   for supplying snacks for the visiting teachers from other schools.
   a. d. V
   Id. Sep.
   9 Sep 14

Upper School Students Celebrate Dies Lustricus

   In yesterday's Upper School Latin classes students celebrated the Dies
   Lustricus, or Purification Day. This day, 8 days after birth for girls
   and 9 days after birth for boys in ancient Rome, was the celebration at
   which Roman babies were given their names. Students are symbolically
   "purified" for the school year with a quick splash of water. Of course,
   no Roman celebration is complete without a sacrifice. In this case
   gummy worms are used. Afterwards, students celebrated with a variety of
   snack foods, especially Lucky Charms cereal. Why Lucky Charms? The Dies
   Lustricus also was the day that children received their bullas, or
   lockets filled with lucky charms, in order to protect them from curses.
   Latin students can wear their good luck bullas on special days in order
   to earn a point or two of extra credit. All Upper School Latin classes
   are off to an auspicious start after a successful Dies Lustricus.
   Photos of the event may be seen on our Twitter account @sasaustinlatin.
   Non.
   Aug.
   5 Aug 14

St. Andrew's Middle and Upper School Latin Clubs attend 61st annual NJCL
Convention at Emory University

   During the last week of July, twenty students from St. Andrew's Upper
   and Middle School divisions participated in the 2014 National Junior
   Classical League convention held at Emory University in Atlanta,
   Georgia. This trip to Atlanta for the St. Andrew's group also included
   a Braves baseball game, a float down the Chattahoochee River, visits to
   the Carlos Museum of Art on the Emory campus, the CNN Studio, the
   Georgia Aquarium, the Coca-Cola Museum, and the Georgia Tech campus,
   and a day of thrills at Six Flags Over Georgia.
   At the convention many students excelled in their individual academic,
   artistic, and athletic contests. The Advanced level competitive
   Certamen team, which included St. Andrew's students, won second place
   in the national tournament. Some students' work was recognized during a
   general assembly of convention delegates for achievement in special
   contests. Mariah Sager won 1st place in the State Digital Scrapbook
   contest for her excellent work as TSJCL Historian in the 2013-2014
   school year. Wesley Wiedenmeier won 4th place in the State Website
   Contest for his redesign of the Texas State Junior Classical League
   website in his official capacity as TSJCL Webmaster in the 2013-2014
   school year. Katherine Salinas, as Area F Chair for this coming school
   year, helped organize the Texas state spirit effort for Thursday's
   general assembly, and the Texas delegation won 1st place in spirit for
   that day! William McKinnerney also served in his official capacity at
   this convention as TSJCL Webmaster (and technology expert), helping to
   run Texas state fellowship meetings in the evenings with the rest of
   the TSJCL executive board. Additionally, Noelle Brimble was recognized
   as Best in Show in the English Oratory contest and was asked to perform
   her speech again during the Creative Arts awards assembly on the final
   day of convention. St. Andrew's alumnus Trace Turner '13, who attended
   the convention as a member of the Senior Classical League, edited and
   published the daily convention newsletter "The Convention Ear" in his
   official capacity as National Senior Classical League editor. Many
   convention attendees agreed that it was one of the best (and most
   entertaining!) series of "Ears" the convention had seen for a long
   while. At the end of convention, Trace was elected to the post of NSCL
   Vice President for the coming year.
   The Advanced Certamen team from Texas, which included three St.
   Andrew's students, a student from the Liberal Arts and Science Academy
   in AISD, and two students from Tom C. Clark High School in San Antonio,
   represented the entire state of Texas in the highest level of the
   competitive tournament. The team was comprised of 2014 graduates Olivia
   Hindera and Nate Eakman, rising senior Bryce Deskins, as well as Cass
   Plowman of LASA, and Kevin Choy and Zihao Zhu of Clark High School. The
   team racked up the most cumulative points in the three preliminary
   rounds to earn the first-place seed for semifinals. After defeating the
   teams from Georgia and Illinois in the semifinal round, the team went
   on to play the final round against the team from Virginia and the team
   from Massachusetts, who were the defending national champions.
   Throughout the twenty-question round, the Texas and Massachusetts teams
   alternately held the lead until the last few questions when
   Massachusetts managed to pull ahead. The final score was
   Massachusetts-125, Texas-95, and Virginia-50.
   The team would like to thank the alternate players who have practiced
   with the team throughout the summer, Wesley Wiedenmeier and Walton
   Schmidt, and team manager Mariah Sager, as well as the numerous alumni
   who came to practices, and all of the supporters who followed the
   competition via the @SASLatin Twitter feed. The team would also like to
   thank graduate Philip Swanger '08 for his help during the convention.
   The coaching staff - Jennie Luongo, Andrew Rist '05, and Lauren Dill -
   is also grateful to the supportive parents who provided food for long
   practices, both during the school year and into the summer, to achieve
   this fantastic result of second place in the nation.
   Here are the complete NJCL contest results, reflecting students who
   placed from 1st to 10th in their contests:
   FIRST PLACE
   Noelle Brimble - English Oratory, Upper Level (high score overall)
   Bryce Deskins - Classical Art, Level 3
   Mariah Sager - Computer Enhanced Photography, Grade 12
   Mariah Sager - Digital Scrapbook for State JCL
   Katherine Salinas - Traditional Photography, Grade 7-9
   SECOND PLACE
   Olivia Hindera - Mottoes, Level 5
   Mariah Sager - Classical Art, Level 5
   THIRD PLACE
   Olivia Hindera - Latin Literature, Level 5
   Walton Schmidt - Latin Sight Recitation, Level 2 Boys
   Max Bartee & Walton Schmidt - "Ludi" Soccer
   FOURTH PLACE
   Max Bartee - 50-yard Freestyle Swimming, Senior Boys Level
   Harrison Benson - Computer Enhanced Photography, Grade 10
   Brendan Bowyer - Essay, Grade 10 Boys
   Tristram Coffin - Ancient Geography, Level 1/2
   Tristram Coffin - Boy's Costume, Junior Level
   Tristram Coffin - "Ludi" Chess
   Rachel Nezzer - Essay, Grade 9 Girls
   Mariah Sager - Essay, Grade 12 Girls
   Max Bartee & Tom Hogan - "Ludi" Basketball
   FIFTH PLACE
   Max Bartee - 50-yard Breaststroke Swimming, Senior Boys Level
   Olivia Hindera - Mythology, Level 5
   Rachel Nezzer - Open Certamen, Intermediate Level
   SIXTH PLACE
   Nate Eakman - Latin Derivatives, Level 4
   Nate Eakman - Essay, Grade 12 Boys
   Rachel Nezzer - Mosaics, Grade 7-9
   Mariah Sager - Latin Vocabulary, Level 5
   SEVENTH PLACE
   Max Bartee - 50-yard Butterfly Swimming, Senior Boys Level
   Bryce Deskins - Roman History, Level 3
   EIGHTH PLACE
   Nate Eakman - Classical Art, Level 4
   Olivia Hindera - Academic Heptathlon, Level 5
   Olivia Hindera - Latin Derivatives, Level 5
   Mariah Sager - Greek Derivatives, Level 5
   NINTH PLACE
   Brendan Bowyer - Colored Pencil Drawing, Grade 10
   Bryce Deskins - Essay, Grade 11 Boys
   Nate Eakman - Greek Derivatives, Level 4
   Nate Eakman - Latin Literature, Level 4
   Caroline Graves - Latin Sight Recitation, Advanced Prose, Girls
   Mariah Sager - Traditional Photography, Grade 12
   Wesley Wiedenmeier - Essay, Grade 11 Boys
   TENTH PLACE
   Tristram Coffin - Academic Heptathlon, Level 1/2
   Nate Eakman - Academic Heptathlon, Level 4
   Nate Eakman - Mythology, Level 4
   Katherine Salinas - Latin Sight Recitation, Level 2 Girls
   a. d. III
   Id. Mai.
   13 May 14

Students Excel on National Roman Civilization Exam

   In March, Upper school Latin students participated in the National
   Roman Civilization Exam which tests students' knowledge of Roman
   History and Roman Life. The following students received medals:
   Gold Medals:
   Hana Arriaga
   Bryce Deskins
   Olivia Hindera
   Rachel Nezzer
   Kady Salinas
   Walton Schmidt
   Cameron Scott
   Silver Medals:
   Connor Brucker
   Annika Ostrom
   Janson Shrock
   Bronze Medals:
   Mark Ashworth
   Max Bartee
   Alex Bradley
   Stevie Gibson
   Will Josowitz
   Lizzie Leighty
   a. d. VIIII
   Kal. Mai.
   23 Apr 14

SAS Upper Latin Students Excel on National Latin Exam

   On March 6th, Latin students at the Upper school took the National
   Latin Exam. They were joined by and competed with over 154,000 students
   from 49 states and 17 foreign countries. Forty-four Upper School
   students were recognized with some kind of award. Sixteen students
   received Gold Medals and twelve received Silver Medals, the two highest
   awards on the exam.
   Perfect Score
   Bryce Deskins
   Gold Medals
   Hana Arriaga
   Mark Ashworth
   Brendan Bowyer
   Bryce Deskins
   Nate Eakman
   Henry Gaudin
   Olivia Hindera
   Annika Mele
   Rachel Nezzer
   Pavan Reddy
   Katherine Salinas
   Walton Schmidt
   Jaron Shrock
   Ariana Weiss
   Wesley Wiedenmeier
   Jonathan Zornio
   Silver Medals
   Alex Bradley
   Connor Brucker
   Carson Carroll
   Frankie Chen
   Logan Giberson
   Caroline Graves
   Noah Mele
   Pouya Mohammadi
   Pritam Reddy
   Cameron Scott
   Janson Shrock
   Olivia Smith
   Magna Cum Laude
   Harrison Benson
   Madeline Chastain
   Elizabeth Curtin
   Allison Eakman
   Christian Erben
   Simran Frontain
   Stevie Gibson
   Nolan McNearney
   Annika Ostrom
   Tristan Reed
   John Sealy
   Taylor Thompson
   Cum Laude
   Asa Buehler
   Gavin Massengale
   Madeleine Mele
   Michelle Robles-Garcia
   As a seniors receiving a gold medals in Latin III or above, Nate
   Eakman, Olivia Hindera, and Jaron Shrock, will also receive scholarship
   applications for the prestigious NLE scholarship.
   prid. Id.
   Apr.
   12 Apr 14

Advanced Certamen Team wins State Championship; Upper School Latin Students
Recognized at Texas State Junior Classical League Convention

   On April 11 and 12, St. Andrew's Upper School students competed in
   academic, artistic, and athletic contests at the Texas State Junior
   Classical League convention at Westwood High School.
   Two Austin-area Certamen teams which included students from St.
   Andrew's competed in the state tournament. The advanced division team,
   composed almost entirely of St. Andrew's students Bryce Deskins, Nate
   Eakman, Wesley Wiedenmeier, and captain Olivia Hindera, won the State
   championship and defeated a team from St. John's in Houston and a
   combined San Antonio-area team in a close final round. They will
   represent Texas at the National convention this summer at Emory
   University. The intermediate division team, including St. Andrew's
   students Rachel Nezzer, Katherine Salinas, and Walton Schmidt, placed
   second after a hard-fought final round. Congratulations to these
   Certamen players!
   Every year at the TSJCL convention, the member schools elect a board of
   student officers to lead the organization for the following year. This
   year two St. Andrew's students have served as officers, Mariah Sager as
   Historian and Wesley Wiedenmeier as Webmaster. At the convention this
   year, Katherine Salinas was officially sworn in as the new Area F
   Chair. Katherine will be hosting next year's Austin-area Latin
   convention at St. Andrew's.
   One student won an award for having the highest score for his
   individual contest in any level: Jaron Shrock in Advanced Prose Reading
   Comprehension.
   Here are the complete results:
   First Place
   Madeline Chastain Monochromatic Drawing
   Madeline Chastain Oil or Acrylic Painting
   Bryce Deskins Classical Art - III
   Nate Eakman Essay
   Olivia Hindera Mottoes
   Mariah Sager Classical Art Ã¢â¬â V+
   Mariah Sager Greek Derivatives
   Mariah Sager Latin Derivatives
   Jaron Shrock Advanced Dramatic Interpretation
   Jaron Shrock Reading Comprehension Ã¢â¬â Advanced Prose
   Second Place
   Noelle Brimble Advanced Dramatic Interpretation
   Madeline Chastain Vocabulary
   Bryce Deskins Roman History
   Olivia Hindera Latin Literature
   Mariah Sager Digital Photography
   Walton Schmidt Mosaic
   Wesley Wiedenmeier Advanced Grammar
   Third Place
   Nate Eakman Decathlon
   Nate Eakman Poetry
   Rachel Nezzer Mythology
   Annika Ostrom Roman Life
   Walton Schmidt Mottoes
   Fourth Place
   Madeline Chastain Reading Comprehension Ã¢â¬â Advanced Poetry
   Simran Frontain Advanced Latin Oratory
   Katherine Salinas Classical Greek
   Fifth Place
   Bryce Deskins Research Paper
   Caroline Graves Sight Recitation
   Katherine Salinas Roman History
   Jonathan Zornio Reading Comprehension - Advanced Poetry
   Students receiving summa cum laude awards for the Pentathlon: Alex
   Bradley, Bryce Deskins, Nate Eakman, Logan Giberson, Olivia Hindera,
   Rachel Nezzer, Katherine Salinas, Walton Schmidt, Wesley Wiedenmeier,
   and Jonathan Zornio.
   Students receiving maxima cum laude awards for the Pentathlon: Brendan
   Bowyer, Carson Carroll, Madeline Chastain, Sam Garrison, Caroline
   Graves, Will Josowitz, Gavin Massengale, Annika Ostrom, Mariah Sager,
   Cameron Scott, and Ariana Weiss.
   Students receiving magna cum laude awards for the Pentathlon: Harrison
   Benson, Asa Buehler, Nolan McNearney, Tristan Reed, and Taylor
   Thompson.
   Students receiving cum laude awards for the Pentathlon: Noelle Brimble,
   Elizabeth Curtin, Christian Erben, Simran Frontain, Maya Kidd, James
   Krajicek, Ellie McDaniel, William McKinnerney, Jack Reed, and Hannah
   Winslett.
   Overall, the Upper School placed 6th in Advanced Division Sweepstakes,
   making us the highest-ranked SPC school at the event. Additionally, our
   club was awarded the fourth place prize in the Latin Club of the Year
   contest. We were also recognized for having the most creative service
   project because of our work with the Joel Nafuma Refugee Center in
   Rome.
   The Latin teachers would like to thank Dawn Bowyer for chaperoning this
   trip and Janice Salinas for coordinating snacks for the group at the
   convention. Thanks also to all the parents who donated food and showed
   up to watch Certamen finals. Good luck to all as we prepare for
   Nationals this summer at Emory University in Atlanta, Georgia.
   a. d. XVII
   Kal. Mai.
   15 Apr 14

Middle School Latin Students Earn Accolades at State Latin Convention

   On Friday, April 11th and Saturday, April 12th eight middle school
   Latin students attended the annual Texas State Junior Classical League
   Convention, held at Westwood High School in Round Rock ISD. More than
   2,000 students attended this year's convention from middle schools and
   high schools all over Texas.
   The weekend's competition kicked off on Friday with students taking the
   Pentathlon, a five-category academic test that all students at the
   convention take. The evening activities continued with contests in
   vocal performance, passage recitation, and costume displays, all
   focused on Latin or Greco-Roman themes.
   Competition continued on Saturday morning, when all students competed
   in written academic contests on various subjects such as mythology,
   Roman history, and Latin vocabulary. In addition to their contests,
   many of the students enjoyed other activities offered at the
   convention. There were athletic contests of both the individual and
   team variety. There was a catapult-building contest. There were
   seminars and workshops from Classics professors as well as college
   students; our very own St. Andrew's alumnus Trace Turner (class of '13)
   offered a talk on Roman coins and currency.
   At the awards ceremony on Saturday evening, names of students who
   placed the top five of their contests for each level were announced.
   Students who placed in the top ten also received certificates for their
   achievements. Certificates for Pentathlon performance were also
   distributed. Despite our small contingency, each of the SAS middle
   school Latin students placed in the top ten of at least one, if not
   more, of their contests.
   The middle school Latin club would like to thank the parents who have
   helped support our efforts this year, either by purchasing cookie dough
   during our annual fundraiser, or by providing snacks for the
   competitions. We look forward to an exciting trip to the National
   Junior Classical League Convention this summer at Emory University in
   Atlanta!
   3rd Place
   Emma Erben - Latin Derivatives, level 1/2 A
   4th Place
   Tristram Coffin - Boys' Costume
   5th Place
   Layne Alam - Mythology, level 1/2 B
   Hannah Bray - Greek Derivatives, level 1/2 A
   Yashwanth Erukulla - Roman History, level 1/2 A
   6th Place
   Tristram Coffin - Mythology, level 1/2 A
   7th Place
   Layne Alam - Roman History, level 1/2 A
   Jack Guttell - Greek Derivatives, level 1/2 B
   Lex Searcy - Roman Life, level 1/2 B
   8th Place
   Hannah Bray - Reading Comprehension I, level 1/2 A
   Gina Perkins - Roman Life, level 1/2 A
   Gina Perkins - Grammar I, level 1/2 A
   9th Place
   Tristram Coffin - Sight Recitation, level 1/2 A
   Emma Erben - Decathlon, level 1/2 A
   Pentathlon Awards:
   Summa cum laude
   Layne Alam
   Emma Erben
   Gina Perkins
   Maxima cum laude
   Tristram Coffin
   Lex Searcy
   Cum laude
   Hannah Bray
   Yashwanth Erukulla
   Jack Guttell
   pridie Kalendas
   Mar.
   28 Feb 14

St. Andrew's Shines at Baylor Latin Day

   Last Friday, February 28, members from the St. Andrewâs Intermediate
   and Advanced certamen teams drove to Waco to attend Baylor Latin Day at
   Baylor University. Every year, Baylor puts together this celebration of
   Latin, featuring a certamen tournament, a noun parsing bee, and a verb
   parsing bee. In addition to showing off their Latin knowledge, students
   had the opportunity to see Baylor University and experience some
   aspects of college life, like the dorm cafeteria. The students who
   participated in these events were Bryce Deskins, Olivia Hindera, Will
   Josowitz, William McKinnerney, Rachel Nezzer, Katherine Salinas, Walton
   Schmidt, and Ariana Weiss. All who participated in the parsing bees did
   very well. Walton Schmidt and Will Josowitz made finals in the noun
   parsing bee. William McKinnerney and Ariana Weiss made finals in the
   verb parsing bee, and Rachel Nezzer won the verb parsing bee. The
   combined Intermediate-Advanced certamen team played very well, taking
   first place in the tournament. Students were awarded books for their
   first place victories. Congratulations to all the participants!
   a. d. VI
   Id. Feb.
   8 Feb 14

Advanced Certamen Wins Area Championship; St. Andrew's Places Second in
Sweepstakes

   On Saturday, February 8 the St. Andrew's Upper School Latin Club
   attended Area F Latin Convention at Connally High School. Our Novice
   certamen team comprised of Allie Eakman, Gavin Massengale, and Noah
   Moore advanced to finals and won third place. The Intermediate certamen
   team comprised of Rachel Nezzer, Katherine Salinas, captain Walton
   Schmidt, Janson Shrock, and alternates William McKinnerney and Will
   Josowitz won second place by a mere 10 points The Advanced team
   comprised of Bryce Deskins, Nate Eakman, captain Olivia Hindera, and
   Wesley Wiedenmeier played an amazing final round, won first place and
   will represent the area at the state tournament.
   As a school, St. Andrew's Upper School took second in the overall
   academic sweepstakes, calculated by assigning points for first, second,
   and third place finishes. Two students were recognized for having the
   highest score at any level on their tests: Olivia Hindera in Mottoes
   and Jaron Shrock in Advanced Grammar. Additionally, Jonathan Zornio and
   Olivia Hindera got the highest score on the Pentathlon of all students
   in their level (Latin III and Latin V+, respectively), a great
   accomplishment as every student at the convention takes that contest.
   Nate Eakman was awarded a scholarship for $538 ($1 for every convention
   attendee) in recognition of the fact that he received the high score on
   the Decathlon test out of all the seniors at the convention. Nate will
   be donating his winnings to Worldbuilders, a charity that uses the
   collective power of readers and authors to make the world a better
   place.
   Finally, Katherine Salinas, class of 2017, was elected Area F
   Chairperson for the 2014-2015 school year. It will be her
   responsibility to host the next convention at St. Andrew's Upper School
   in the winter of next year.
   The individual awards follow:
   1st Place
   Connor Brucker - Play
   Noelle Brimble - Play
   Asa Buehler - Ancient Geography
   Bryce Deskins - Latin Literature
   Bryce Deskins - Roman History
   Nate Eakman - Play
   Christian Erben - Vocal Solo
   Henry Gaudin - Mottoes
   Caroline Graves - Play
   Olivia Hindera - Mottoes
   Olivia Hindera - Mythology
   Will Josowitz - Play
   Fletcher Lowin - Latin Literature
   Ellie McDaniel - Play
   Rachel Nezzer - Mythology
   Rachel Nezzer - Play
   Mariah Sager - Greek Derivatives
   Walton Schmidt - Mottoes
   Walton Schmidt - Sight Recitation
   Cameron Scott - Greek History
   Jaron Shrock - Advanced Grammar
   Wesley Wiedenmeier - Advanced Grammar
   2nd Place
   Brendan Bowyer - Vocal Ensemble
   Connor Brucker - Ancient Geography
   Asa Buehler - Roman History
   Joel Campbell Boy's Costume
   Joel Campbell - Dramatic Interpretation
   Joel Campbell - Vocal Ensemble
   Madeline Chastain - Monochromatic Drawing
   Frankie Chen - Advanced Grammar
   Nate Eakman - Decathlon
   Nate Eakman - Mythology
   Simran Frontain - Latin Oratory
   Kathryn Gernstein - Latin Literature
   Logan Giberson - Vocal Ensemble
   Fletcher Lowin - Greek Life and Lit
   Noah Moore - Roman History
   Jack Reed - Ancient Geography
   Mariah Sager - Latin Derivatives
   Jared Samuels - Greek History
   Cameron Scott - Greek Derivatives
   Jaron Shrock - Reading Comprehension Advanced Prose
   Hannah Winslett - Monochromatic Drawing
   Jonathan Zornio - Advanced Grammar
   3rd Place
   Harrison Benson - Latin Derivatives
   Harrison Benson - Latin Oratory
   Alex Bradley - Vocabulary
   Noelle Brimble - Dramatic Interpretation
   Brendan Bowyer - Decathlon
   Joel Campbell - Sight Recitation
   Frankie Chen - Decathlon
   Henry Gaudin - Reading Comprehension Advanced Poetry
   Kathryn Gernstein - Couples Costume
   Tom Hogan - Roman Life
   Nicolette Kivlin - Dramatic Interpretation
   Ellie McDaniel - Sight Recitation
   Annika Mele - Advanced Grammar
   Annika Mele - Couples Costume
   Annika Mele - Roman Life
   Madeleine Mele - Latin Literature
   Madeleine Mele - Reading Comprehension Advanced Prose
   Katherine Salinas - Roman History
   Katherine Salinas - Sight Recitation
   Jared Samuels - Greek Life and Lit
   Ariana Weiss - Latin Literature
   Hannah Winslett - Polychromatic Drawing
   Receiving summa cum laude awards for the Pentathlon were: Hana Arriaga,
   Alex Bradley, Connor Brucker, Carson Carroll, Frankie Chen, Bryce
   Deskins, Allie Eakman, Nate Eakman, Henry Gaudin, Caroline Graves,
   Olivia Hindera, Tom Hogan, Annika Mele, Rachel Nezzer, Mariah Sager,
   Walton Schmidt, Cameron Scott, Janson Shrock, Jaron Shrock, Taylor
   Thompson, Ariana Weiss, Wesley Wiedenmeier, and Jonathan Zornio.
   Receiving maxima cum laude awards for the Pentathlon were: Max Bartee,
   Brendan Bowyer, Asa Buehler, Madeline Chastain, Christian Erben,
   Kathryn Gernstein, Will Josowitz, Lizzie Leighty, Gavin Massengale,
   William McKinnerney, Noah Moore, Annika Ostrom, Pavan Reddy, and
   Katherine Salinas.
   Receiving magna cum laude awards for the Pentathlon were: Harrison
   Benson, Harrison Boyt, Elizabeth Curtin, Simran Frontain, Logan
   Giberson, Nicolette Kivlin, James Krajicek, Alessandra Massa, Ellie
   McDaniel, Nolan McNearney, Madeleine Mele, Noah Mele, Pouya Mohammadi,
   Jack Reed, Tristan Reed, Jared Samuels and Hannah Winslett.
   Receiving cum laude awards for the Pentathlon were: Noelle Brimble,
   Kate Fox, Maya Kidd, and Elouise Weil.
   Thanks to all the parents who have supported us our efforts this year,
   especially to Amy Erben and Dawn Bowyer, who helped make sure the
   competitors were fed. Thanks also go to Janet Eakman, our Certamen team
   parent. Congratulations to all the winners and bonam fortunam omnibus
   at State. The State Convention will be held on April 11-12 at Westwood
   High School in Round Rock ISD.
   a. d. VII
   Id. Feb.
   7 Feb 14

New Saturday Schedule for Area F

   Below is a revised schedule for the Area F Latin Convention. Olympika
   have been canceled because of space and staffing issues that came up
   with the weather delay. We will continue monitoring the weather and
   revise the schedule as necessary if travel remains dangerous. Thanks
   for your patience as we try to deal with weather and other issues.
   We are short on test proctors for the convention. Parents, if you are
   planning to drive students to Connally and would be willing to stay and
   proctor a test for a couple of hours, please let Jennie Luongo
   (jluongo@sasaustin.org) know.
   Saturday, February 8
   6:00-8:30 Early testing
   7:30-8:20 Registration
   Certamen Draw (coaches and captains should check in at registration
   table)
   Art Registration
   Breakfast
   8:30-9:00 Pentathlon
   9:00-11:00 Academic Testing
   10:00-12:00 Sight Recitation
   10:00-12:00 Dramatic Interpretation and Latin Oratory
   11:00-12:30 Certamen Preliminaries
   12:00-1:00 Classical Civilization:Vocal, Costume, Play
   1:00-2:00 Lunch
   1:00-3:00 Art pick-up
   2:00-4:00 Certamen Finals
   4:00-5:00 Awards Ceremony; Area F Chair Election
   a. d. VIII
   Id. Feb.
   6 Feb 14

Certamen Preliminaries POSTPONED Until Saturday

   Area F Certamen preliminaries have been CANCELED for Friday night and
   will be held on Saturday at Connally High School. We will post more
   information here when we have more details about Saturday's schedule.
   Non.
   Feb.
   5 Feb 14

National Classical Etymology Exam Awards Announced

   On December 2nd , Latin students at the Upper school took the National
   Classical Etymology Exam. They were joined by and competed with
   students from across the United States. There is one exam, and awards
   are based on the level of Latin in which a student is enrolled.
   Students in each level can be awarded gold, silver, or bronze medals
   for outstanding results. Eighteen Upper School students were recognized
   with some kind of award. Seven students received Gold Medals, two
   received Silver Medals, and five received Bronze Medals.
   Gold Medals
   Bryce Deskins
   Olivia Hindera
   Mariah Sager
   Rachel Nezzer
   Pavan Reddy
   Walton Schmidt
   Cameron Scott
   Silver Medals
   Hana Arriaga
   Olivia Smith
   Bronze Medals
   Alex Bradley
   Annika Mele
   Jack Reed
   Kady Salinas
   Janson Shrock
   a. d. XVIII
   Kal. Dec.
   14 Nov 13

St. Andrew's Continues Latin Banquet Traditions

   On Sunday, November 10th the thirty-first annual St. Andrew's Latin
   Banquet was held in Nazro Hall on the 31st Street campus. All Latin
   students in grades 5-12 participated and dressed in tunicae, togae, and
   stolae, according to their level of Latin. Middle Schoolers and
   upper-level Upper Schoolers accessorized their garb to portray
   characters from Greco-Roman mythology and figures from Roman history.
   During the banquet students were judged for the costume contests and
   sampled a three-course tasting menu based on food the Romans would have
   eaten.
   Students prepared for the event in their Latin classes by studying
   about ancient Roman clothing and food. Each Latin class from fifth
   grade through Pre-AP Latin also prepared poster boards on topics about
   this year's theme, "The Underworld." During the banquet these posters
   were displayed and used as visual aids for the Latin III students to
   give oral presentations about each topic. The AP Latin students set up
   their own version of the Greco-Roman Underworld in Crusader Hall for
   students to experience during the festivities. The Advanced Topics in
   Latin class prepared "rivers" of the Underworld for students to cross
   as they entered Nazro Hall. The "price" to enter the banquet this year
   was not a coin, as the ancients believed was necessary for entering the
   Underworld, but rather a food item for the Hands for Hope Food Drive.
   As many students who have attended the Latin Banquet since their Lower
   School years will tell you, the Latin Banquet offers many opportunities
   for the older students to inspire the younger students as they continue
   with their Latin studies. The younger students listen to the older
   students present about more advanced and interesting topics in the
   Latin language, Roman history, and mythology. The Upper School students
   work hard on their presentations, targeting the younger students in
   particular, trying to spark the interest that has driven them to
   continue with their own Latin education.
   While many schools are cutting their Latin programs due to budgetary
   constraints, St. Andrew's has continued offering students the
   opportunity to study Latin, the ancient language of the Romans that has
   given us the seven modern Romance languages. "The study of Roman
   culture which typically accompanies Latin study informs the study of
   any Western literature, art, or culture as well... If Latin were dead,
   every Western culture and language would be also bereft of life,"
   comments former Notre Dame admissions counselor and current Harvard
   assistant professor Matthew Potts. In addition to offering students a
   unique insight into the origins of the modern Western world, the study
   of Latin boosts their English vocabularies, understanding of grammar,
   and logical thinking skills. As Andrea Thomas, Assistant Director of
   Admission at Hamilton College states, "A background in Latin provides
   students with a stronger English vocabulary. Open any SAT prep book,
   and you will see a crash course in Latin in the vocab section."
   Many thanks to the Latin Banquet Parent Chairs, Laura Buehler and Andy
   Deskins, along with all of the parents who volunteered to make this
   year's banquet such a great success!
   (Article by Ariana Weiss, edited by Lauren Dill and Jennie Luongo)
   Costume Contest Winners
   5th Grade â Ballon
   GIRLS
   1st : Louise Lee
   2nd : Malika Chauhan
   3rd : Sofia Huston
   BOYS
   1st : Becker Jackson
   2nd : Jack Havemann
   3rd : Trenton Jackson
   5th Grade â Eleby
   GIRLS
   1st : Mia Arriaga
   2nd : Helen Chapin-Eiserloh
   3rd : Maria Tobias & Evelyn Berry
   BOYS
   1st : Jack Bellingrath
   2nd : Ethan LeBlanc
   3rd : Liam Cohagan
   5th Grade â Hart
   GIRLS
   1st : Cammie Guttell
   2nd : Carlie McCall
   3rd : Avery Ingram
   BOYS
   1st : Nicholas DeBalko
   2nd : Timmy OâBrien
   3rd : Stephen Andrulis
   6th grade Section A
   GIRLS
   1st : Leah Claman
   2nd : Kyla Thompson
   3rd : Chloe Ezell
   BOYS
   1st : Henry Erlinger
   2nd : Teddy Gilman
   3rd : Alex Osella
   6th grade Section B
   GIRLS
   1st : Maddie McWilliams
   2nd : Mackenzie Kruger
   3rd : Rachel Coe
   BOYS
   1st : John David Grisebaum
   2nd : Chase Samuels
   3rd : Cole Morehead
   6th grade Section C
   GIRLS
   1st : Sidney Marsh
   2nd : Sarah Payet
   3rd : Ellie Claman & Lily Hersch
   BOYS
   1st : Andrew Buller
   2nd : Sina Mohammadi
   6th grade Section D
   GIRLS
   1st : Anna Jackson
   2nd : Gia Fareri
   3rd : Kathleen Schwartz
   BOYS
   1st : Ben Ledet
   2nd : Stefaan Meinert
   3rd : Truman Cunningham
   7th Grade
   1st : Gina Perkins
   2nd : Tristram Coffin
   3rd : Robert MacDougall
   8th Grade, section 1
   1st : Lex Searcy
   2nd : Colton Gunnarson
   3rd : Jasmine Aghazadeh
   8th Grade, section 2 & 3
   1st : Layne Alam & Jackie Smith
   2nd : Pace Renner
   3rd : Oliver Chapin-Eiserloh
   Latin I
   1st : Allison Eakman
   2nd : Gavin Massengale
   3rd : Noah Mele
   Latin II Freshmen â C Period
   1st : Lizzy Leighty
   2nd : William McKinnerney
   3rd : Walton Schmidt
   Latin II Freshmen â D Period
   1st : Hana Arriaga
   2nd : Alexander Bradley
   3rd : Rachel Nezzer
   Latin II Upperclassmen
   1st : Alessandra Massa
   2nd : Max Bartee
   3rd : Tom Hogan
   Latin III â B Period
   1st : Brendan Bowyer
   2nd : Joel Campbell
   3rd : Bryce Deskins & Ariana Weiss
   Latin III â F Period
   1st : Carson Carroll
   2nd : Annika Ostrom
   3rd : Maya Kidd & Wesley Weidenmeier
   AP & Pre-AP non-seniors
   1st : Connor Brucker
   2nd : Noelle Brimble
   3rd : Asa Buehler & Simran Frontain
   Advanced Topics & AP seniors
   1st : Nate Eakman
   2nd : Olivia Hindera & Mariah Sager
   3rd : Jaron Shrock
   a. d. VII
   Kal. Nov.
   26 Oct 13

Clark Certamen Tournament a Success

   The weekend of October 26th, the St. Andrews Certamen teams traveled to
   Clark High School in San Antonio for the annual Clark Certamen
   Tournament. All five teams from the middle and upper schools did
   extremely well. The Advanced A-team consisting of captain Olivia
   Hindera, Ariana Weiss, Wesley Wiedenmeier and Bryce Deskins won all of
   their preliminary rounds and then advanced to the final round. In the
   first round they played Westlake Red and LASA, in the second round they
   played St. Andrew's B and Westlake Blue, and in the third round they
   played Reagan A and Churchill. After these three rounds, they made
   finals as the second highest scoring team. Clark Black and Reagan B
   also made finals. The St. Andrew's team was ahead most of the round,
   and going into the last tossup the score was St. Andrew's A with 115
   points and Clark Black with 100. Clark got the last question and both
   boni, so they ended up winning by with 120 points to the St. Andrew's
   115 points. It was an exciting, close, and well-fought match-up. The
   St. Andrew's teams will play next in San Antonio at St. Mary's Hall on
   December 7th.
   a. d. VII
   Kal. Sep.
   26 Aug 13

US Latin Club Celebrates the Anniversary of the Eruption of Mt. Vesuvius

   To memorialize the amazingly destructive and devastating eruption that
   occurred 1,934 years ago, the St. Andrews Upper School Latin Club had
   an eruption of a different kind- an exploding cake! On August 26th,
   2013 during X-Period the Latin Club celebrated the historical event of
   the Mt. Vesuvius's Eruption by a steaming, bubbling Mt. Vesuvius Cake
   courtesy of Mrs. Dawn Bowyer. The real eruption of Mt. Vesuvius in 79
   A.D while vastly devastating the surrounding cities created a future
   archeological wonder for all of us to see in the modern day. The lava
   and ash preserved Roman cities literally in a stone tomb so air tight
   it prevented even food stuffs from degrading. Now these cities can be
   observed at the active archeological sites. One of the best preserved
   cities, Pompeii, is now well known as a tourist attraction.
   a. d. IIII
   Kal. Aug.
   29 Jul 13

Latin students attend 60th annual NJCL Convention in Las Vegas

   Twenty members of the St. Andrew's Latin Club participated in the 2013
   National Junior Classical League convention that was held at the
   University of Nevada in Las Vegas, Nevada from July 22nd to the 27th.
   Participants competed in athletics (such as swimming, track, and
   ultimate Frisbee), art contests, and daily academic exams. Many of the
   students placed in the top ten of their respective competitions,
   including academic tests, graphic arts, speaking and writing contests,
   and "Olympika" (athletics). Students also assembled for state
   fellowship and general assemblies, where they competed to show their
   spirit for their state, and marched in the Spirit Procession wearing
   their best Roman costumes along with about 1200 other Latin students
   from across the nation. The St. Andrew's trip also included a couple of
   spectacular Las Vegas shows, an awe-inspiring trip to the Hoover Dam,
   and an educational river raft tour.
   The NJCL Convention is run in part by student officers elected by the
   delegates to the convention. Trace Turner has served the organization
   admirably for the last year as Editor of the Torch: US, the NJCL
   quarterly. At this convention many of our 2013 grads also joined the
   Senior Classical League, an organization (made up of former JCL members
   after they graduate high school) that helps put on some of the events
   at NJCL convention. Upon becoming a member of the SCL at this
   convention, Trace Turner was elected to the position of SCL Editor.
   Additionally Wesley Wiedenmeier, the Texas State Junior Classical
   League webmaster, won second place in the national website contest for
   all his work on the tsjcl.org website this past year.
   Two of our students were acknowledged for overall points as well. When
   a student places in the top five in a contest at NJCL he or she
   receives "personal sweepstakes points." At the end of the convention
   awards are given for the most sweepstakes points in each category.
   Noelle Brimble placed 9th and Walton Schmidt placed 10th in the
   Creative Arts Sweepstakes category.
   Full results:
   1st Place
   Bryce Deskins - Classical Art (Level 2)
   Henry Gaudin - 50-yard Breaststroke in Olympika
   Walton Schmidt - Sight Latin Reading (Level 1)
   Trace Turner - Traditional Photography (Grade 12)
   2nd Place
   Wesley Weidenmeier - Website Contest
   Bryce Deskins - Open Certamen (Intermediate Level)
   3rd Place
   Noelle Brimble - Costume (Girls)
   Noelle Brimble - English Oratory (Grade 10)
   Charlie Dennis - Dramatic Interpretation (Poetry)
   Nate Eakman - Modern Myth
   Mariah Sager - Digital Scrapbook
   Reeves Smith - Mottoes (Level 5+)
   Trace Turner - Digitally Enhanced Photography (Grade 12)
   Ariana Weiss - Classical Art (Level 2)
   4th Place
   Nate Eakman - Cartoons (Grades 11-12)
   Mariah Sager - Latin Derivatives (Level 5+)
   Walton Schmidt - Mosaics (Grades 7-9)
   Trace Turner - Classical Art (Level 5+)
   6th Place
   Charlie Dennis - Classical Art (Level 5+)
   Nate Eakman - Classical Art (Level 3)
   Olivia Hindera - Mottoes (Level 4)
   Tom Hogan - Essay (Grade 9)
   William McKinnerney - Multimedia (Grades 7-9)
   Marshall Wilson - Impromptu Art (Grade 12)
   7th Place
   Connor Blake - 400 Meter Run in Olympika
   Nate Eakman - Greek Derivatives (Level 3)
   Mariah Sager - Greek Derivatives (Level 5+)
   Katherine Salinas - Traditional Photography (Grades 7-9)
   8th Place
   Connor Blake - Sight Latin Reading (Poetry)
   Noelle Brimble - Dramatic Interpretation (Poetry)
   Bryce Deskins - Traditional Photography (Grade 10)
   Nolan McNearney - Sight Latin Reading (Level 1)
   Mariah Sager - Classical Art (Level 5+)
   Mariah Sager - Latin Vocabulary (Level 5+)
   Wesley Wiedenmeier - Essay (Grade 10)
   Marshall Wilson - Latin Derivatives (Level 1)
   9th Place
   Noelle Brimble - Overall Creative Arts Sweepstakes
   Tom Hogan - Black Ink Drawing (Grades 7-9)
   Rachel Nezzer - Latin Literature (Level 1)
   Reeves Smith - Classical Art (Level 5+)
   Marshall Wilson - Essay (Grade 12)
   10th Place
   Bryce Deskins - Mottoes (Level 2)
   Bryce Deskins - Essay (Grade 10)
   Rachel Nezzer - Sight Latin Reading (Level 1)
   Katherine Salinas - Classical Greek (Level 1)
   Walton Schmidt - Overall Creative Arts Sweepstakes
   Reeves Smith - Essay (Grade 12)
   Trace Turner - Illustrated Quotations (Grades 10-12)
   Wesley Wiedenmeier - Reading Comprehension (Level 2)
   a. d. VIII
   Kal. Iun.
   25 May 13

New Latin Club Officers: 2013-2014

   In a glorious ode to the end of the 2012-2013 school year Latin Club
   Students and friends celebrated at Mr. Michaudâs lake house by enjoying
   the pool and the nearby lake complete with trapeze swing. The famous
   annual Lake Party almost made history in being the first Lake Party to
   almost be rained out .In addition to the fun, games and rain, the
   2013-2014 Officer Elections took place at the poolside in a ceremony
   led by our departing Senior Consul Trace Turner. This yearâs election
   ended smoothly with Mariah Sager taking the Senior Consul position and
   only one tie for the Historicius Peregrinus position. The position is
   to be filled by co-historians James Krajicek (who is in charge of
   writing all articles pertaining to the Latin Club) and Caroline Graves
   (who will enter all Community Service and Publicity Contests for the
   Latin Club).
   Your 2013-2014 Latin Club Officers! audaces fortuna iuvat!
   SENIOR CONSUL MARIAH SAGER
   JUNIOR CONSUL NOELLE BRIMBLE
   PROCONSUL BRYCE DESKINS
   QUAESTOR OLIVIA HINDERA
   HISTORICA LIBRI ELLIE MCDANIEL
   HISTORICA PEREGRINA CAROLINE GRAVES
   HISTORICUS PEREGRINUS JAMES KRAJICEK
   a. d. XVII
   Kal. Iun.
   16 May 13

Maureen O'Donnel Book Awards

   The National Latin Exam Committee has commended Nick Fox and Jaron
   Shrock for winning four consecutive gold medals on the exam. In
   recognition of this prestigious accomplishment, they are both receiving
   an Oxford Classical Dictionary.
   Kal.
   Mai.
   1 May 13

Upper School Latin Student Honored in CAMWS Translation Contest

   The Classical Association of the Middle West and South offers a
   translation contest each year for high school students. This year St.
   Andrew's junior Olivia Hindera was chosen as one of 20 book winners in
   the competition for her excellent sight translation of a selection of
   prose from Latin literature.
   pridie Kalendas
   Mai.
   30 Apr 13

5 Latin Students Win Awards on the Medusa Mythology Exam

   In March, 11 Upper School Latin students participated in the Medusa
   Mythology Exam, an exam that tests students' knowledge of Mythology
   relating to a theme. This year's theme was the Trojan War, and 5
   students received awards:
   Gold Medal:
   Olivia Hindera
   Silver Medal:
   Ariana Weiss
   Corona Olivae:
   Bryce Deskins
   Tom Hogan
   Robert Luke
   a. d. VI
   Kal. Mai.
   26 Apr 13

Upper School Latin Students Win Awards on the National Latin Exam

   On February 27th, Latin students at the Upper school took the National
   Latin Exam. They were joined by and competed with over 154,000 students
   from all 50 states and 15 foreign countries including Australia,
   Canada, China, Germany, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, New
   Zealand, the Philippines, Poland, Taiwan, Turkey, the United Kingdom,
   and Zimbabwe. There are separate exams for different levels of Latin,
   and students in each level are awarded medals (gold and silver) for
   high achievement. Forty-six Upper School students were recognized with
   some kind of award. Seventeen students received Gold Medals and seven
   received Silver Medals, the two highest awards on the exam.
   Perfect Score
   Nate Eakman
   Gold Medals
   Harrison Benson
   Frankie Chen
   Bryce Deskins
   Nick Fox
   Henry Gaudin
   Logan Giberson
   Olivia Hindera
   Zachary Osborne
   Pavan Reddy
   Mariah Sager
   Jaron Shrock
   Reeves Smith
   Ariana Weiss
   Wesley Wiedenmeier
   Marshall Wilson
   Jonathan Zornio
   Silver Medals
   Mark Ashworth
   Madeline Chastain
   Sam Fason
   Caroline Graves
   Annika Mele
   Noah Mele
   Will Pearson
   Magna Cum Laude
   Connor Blake
   Brendan Bowyer
   Elizabeth Curtin
   Simran Frontain
   Sam Garrison
   Bri Hardeman
   Thomas Hogan
   Sara Kane
   Gillean Kelly
   Pritam Reddy
   Tristan Reed
   Maura Salgo
   Jared Samuels
   Carter Tomsu
   Evan Young
   Cum Laude
   Catherine Brady
   Connor Brucker
   McLean Ewbank
   Kathryn Gernstein
   William Howard
   Madeleine Mele
   John Sealy
   As a senior receiving a gold medal in Latin III or above, Reeves Smith,
   has also received a scholarship application for the prestigious NLE
   scholarship.
   a. d. XVI
   Kal. Mai.
   16 Apr 13

Middle and Upper School Latin Students Excel at the State Latin Convention

   On March 30 and 31, St. Andrew's Upper School students competed at the
   Texas State Junior Classical League convention at Clark High School in
   San Antonio, Texas. Students participated in academic, artistic, and
   athletic contests.
   Two Austin-area Certamen teams that included students from St. Andrew's
   competed in the state tournament. The intermediate division team,
   including St. Andrew's students: Wesley Wiedenmeier, Henry Gaudin,
   captain Bryce Deskins, and alternate Jonathan Zornio, placed second.
   The novice division team including St. Andrew's students: Rachel Nezzer
   and alternates Walton Schmidt and Marshall Wilson placed second as
   well. Congratulations to these Certamen players!
   Every year at the TSJCL convention, the member schools elect a board of
   student officers to lead the organization for the following year. This
   year four St. Andrew's students have served as officers, Reeves Smith
   as Editor of the organization's publication, "the Torch," Olivia
   Hindera as Treasurer, Wesley Wiedenmeier as Webmaster, and Walton
   Schmidt as Area F Chairperson. At the convention this year, Mariah
   Sager ran for the office of Historian, which she easily won. Mariah
   will serve as Historian of the Texas State Junior Classical League
   during the next year.
   Two students won an award for having the highest score for their
   individual contests in any level: Reeves Smith received the high score
   award for Mottoes and William Howard scored the highest in Latin
   Oratory.
   Here are the complete results:
   1st Place
   Noelle Brimble - Miscellaneous Art
   Charlie Dennis - Greek Life and Literature
   Olivia Hindera - Mottoes
   William Howard - Latin Oratory Advanced
   Will Pearson - Reading Comprehension Advanced Prose
   Mariah Sager - Latin Derivatives
   Mariah Sager - Scrapbook
   Katherine Salinas - Photography
   Walton Schmidt - Mottoes, Level 1/2 B
   Walton Schmidt - Open Certamen, Novice division
   Reeves Smith - Mottoes
   Reeves Smith - Open Certamen
   2nd Place
   Noelle Brimble - Girls Costume
   Madeline Chastain - Monochromatic drawing (State)
   Madeline Chastain - Oil or Acrylic
   Robert Luke - Roman History
   Robert Luke - Geography of the Ancient World
   William McKinnerney - Latin Literature, Level 1/2 B
   Pouya Mohammadi - Latin Vocabulary, Level 1/2 B
   Rachel Nezzer - Competitive Certamen, Novice division
   Zack Osborne - Open Certamen
   Will Pearson - Sight Recitation IV+ (Poetry)
   Jack Reed & Janson Shrock - Modern Catapult
   Jonathan Zornio - Grammar Advanced
   3rd Place
   Jack Guttell - Grammar, Level 1/2 A
   Olivia Hindera - Mythology
   Robert Luke - Open Certamen
   Zack Osborne - Grammar Advanced
   Mariah Sager - Greek Derivatives
   Trace Turner - Mythology
   Ariana Weiss - Mythology
   4th Place
   Layne Alam - Mythology, Level 1/2 A
   Joel Campbell - Boys Costume
   Charlie Dennis - Play
   Bryce Deskins - Roman History
   Caroline Graves - State T-Shirt
   William Howard - Play
   Isabel Laubach - Roman Life, Level 1/2 B
   Ellie McDaniel - Sight Recitation III (Prose)
   Annika Mele - Reading Comprehension Advanced Poetry
   Rachel Nezzer - Mythology, Level 1/2 B
   Cameron Osborn - Grammar Advanced
   Will Pearson ÃÂ¢Ã¢âÂ¬Ã¢â¬Å Play
   Reeves Smith - Play
   Trace Turner - Play
   Ariana Weiss - Greek Life and Literature
   Marshall Wilson - Latin Derivatives
   Marshall Wilson - Play
   5th Place
   Harrison Benson - Electronic Artwork
   Catherine Brady - Dramatic Interpretation Advanced - Girls
   Noelle Brimble - Dramatic Interpretation Advanced - Girls
   Charlie Dennis - Vocal Ensemble
   Bryce Deskins - Latin Derivatives
   Nate Eakman - Decathlon
   Simran Frontain - Essay
   Henry Gaudin - Mottoes
   Will Pearson - Vocal Ensemble
   Katherine Salinas - Sight Recitation, Level 1/2 B
   Reeves Smith - Decathlon
   Trace Turner - Vocal Ensemble
   Wesley Wiedenmeier - Reading Comprehension II
   Hannah Winslett - Poetry
   Students receiving summa cum laude awards for the Pentathlon: Brendan
   Bowyer, Asa Buehler, Bryce Deskins, Nate Eakman, Logan Giberson, Olivia
   Hindera, Thomas Hogan, William Howard, Julia Josowitz, Sara Kane, James
   Krajicek, Isabel Laubach, Rachel Nezzer, Zachary Osborne, William
   Pearson, Katherine Salinas, Walton Schmidt, Reeves Smith, Ariana Weiss,
   Wesley Wiedenmeier, Marshall Wilson, Jonathan Zornio
   Students receiving maxima cum laude awards for the Pentathlon: Layne
   Alam, Frankie Chen, Samuel Garrison, Henry Gaudin, Caroline Graves,
   Robert Luke, Annika Mele, Cameron Osborn, Tristan Reed, Michelle
   Robles, Mariah Sager, Janson Shrock
   Students receiving magna cum laude awards for the Pentathlon: Andrew
   Barron, Harrison Benson, Carson Carroll, Madeline Chastain, Charles
   Dennis, Christian Erben, Simran Frontain, Kathryn Gernstein, Bri
   Hardeman, Grace Jensen, Will Josowitz, Ellie McDaniel, Madeleine Mele,
   Taylor Thompson, Trace Turner, Hannah Winslett
   Students receiving cum laude awards for the Pentathlon: Connor Blake,
   Catherine Brady, William McKinnerney, Nolan McNearney, Jack Reed
   Overall, the Upper School placed 6th in Upper Division Sweepstakes,
   making us the highest-ranked SPC school at the event. The Middle School
   placed 9th in the Middle School Division.
   The Latin teachers would like to thank Trey and Annette Graves, Dawn
   and Steven Bowyer, and Cindy Luongo-Cassidy for helping to deal with
   logistics during the convention. Thanks also to all the parents who
   donated food and showed up to watch candidates' speeches and Certamen
   finals. Good luck to all as we prepare for Nationals this summer at the
   University of Nevada, Las Vegas.
   a. d. IIII
   Non. Apr.
   3 Apr 13

Upper School Latin Students Win Medals for the NCEE

   In November thirteen Upper School Latin students took part in the
   National Classical Etymology Exam, an online exam sponsored by the
   National Junior Classical League. Nearly have of St. Andrews' thirteen
   participants were awarded medals for their performance on the exam
   based on their grade level.
   Receiving Gold Medals:
   Olivia Hindera
   Sara Kane
   Mariah Sager
   Receiving Bronze Medals:
   Bryce Deskins
   Simran Frontain
   Reeves Smith
   a. d. V
   Kal. Feb.
   28 Jan 13

Upper School Students Win Ancient Coins

   This year students at St. Andrew's Upper School are participating in
   the Ancient Coins for Education project. Students in some Latin classes
   will be examining and identifying genuine Roman coins sent to us by the
   project, led by Trace Turner '13, an ancient coin enthusiast. As part
   of this project, Upper School students in Latin 3, 4, and 5
   participated in a competition to identify images on Roman coins. Our
   school winner was Olivia Hindera '14 and for her excellent performance
   she received a Roman coin minted under Theodosius the Great.
   Additionally, the Advanced Topics in Latin students participated in an
   essay writing competition. Cameron Osborn's (class of 2013) essay,
   which was the winning essay selected from our school, was entered in
   the national competition. His essay placed third nationally. Cameron
   received both an ancient coin and a book prize. Congratulations to both
   these ancient Roman coin experts!
   a. d. X
   Kal. Feb.
   23 Jan 13

St. Andrew's Hosts Successful Area Latin Convention

   On Friday, January 18 and Saturday, January 19 the St. Andrew's Latin
   Clubs hosted the Area F Latin Convention at St. Andrew's Lower and
   Middle School. Many student and parent volunteers spent countless hours
   setting-up, running, and cleaning up after the Convention, and it was a
   great success. Our very own eighth-grader Walton Schmidt presided over
   the convention as the Area F Chairperson, taking a lead role along with
   his sponsor Lauren Dill in making the convention run smoothly. The
   Latin teachers and clubs would like to sincerely thank everyone who
   came out to help us put on a great convention this year.
   In Certamen all of our teams did well. Our Our Middle School Certamen
   team, composed of Layne Alam, Katie Cowan, William McKinnerney, Rachel
   Nezzer, Katherine Salinas, Janson Shrock, and captain Walton Schmidt
   advanced to finals and won second by a nail. Our Novice Certamen team
   composed of Mark Ashworth, Max Bartee, Tom Hogan, James Krajicek, and
   captain Marshall Wilson won first place by 50 points. The Intermediate
   Certamen team including captain Bryce Deskins, Ariana Weiss, Wesley
   Wiedenmeier, Jonathan Zornio, and alternates Harrison Benson, Henry
   Gaudin, and Caroline Graves also took first place. The Advanced team
   (Olivia Hindera, captain Robert Luke, Zack Osborne, and Reeves Smith
   with alternates Sara Kane, Mariah Sager, and Trace Turner) won third
   place in a hard fought round. Members of all four Certamen teams will
   have the opportunity to represent Area F at the State Latin Convention
   in April.
   As a school, St. Andrew's Upper School took second in the overall
   academic sweepstakes, calculated by assigning points for first, second,
   and third place finishes. Four students were recognized for having the
   highest score at any level on their tests: Olivia Hindera in Mythology,
   Mariah Sager in Latin Derivatives, Jaron Shrock in Reading
   Comprehension Advanced Prose, and Reeves Smith in Mottoes.
   1st Place
   Asa Buehler - Geography of the Ancient World
   Joel Campbell - Boys Costume
   Charlie Dennis - Dramatic Interpretation Advanced - Boys
   Bryce Deskins - Latin Derivatives
   Charlie Dennis - Play
   Nate Eakman - Mythology
   Henry Gaudin - Mottoes
   Gabbie Hindera - Play
   Olivia Hindera - Mottoes
   Olivia Hindera - Mythology
   Tom Hogan - Mythology
   William Howard - Latin Oratory Advanced
   William Howard - Play
   Grace Jensen - MS Girls Long Jump
   Nolan McNearney - MS Boys 50 Yard Dash
   Nolan McNearney - MS Boys Long Jump
   Will Pearson - Play
   Mariah Sager - Latin Derivatives
   Walton Schmidt - Mottoes & Abbreviations
   Janson Shrock - MS Boys Frisbee Throw
   Janson Shrock - MS Boys Softball Throw
   Jaron Shrock - Reading Comprehension Advanced Prose
   Jaron Shrock - Grammar Advanced
   Reeves Smith - Mottoes
   Reeves Smith - Play
   Trace Turner - Play
   Wesley Wiedenmeier - Grammar Advanced
   Marshall Wilson - Play
   Hannah Winslett - Polychromatic Art (Area F)
   Hannah Winslett - HS Girls 200 Yard Dash
   Jonathan Zornio - Grammar Advanced
   2nd Place
   Mark Ashworth - Grammar I (Elementary)
   Harrison Benson - Dramatic Interpretation II - Boys
   Connor Blake - Greek Life and Literature
   Frankie Chen - Grammar Advanced
   Charlie Dennis - Vocal Ensemble
   Bryce Deskins - Roman History
   Bethany Dollar - MS Girls Frisbee Throw
   Nate Eakman - Decathlon
   Sam Fason - Geography of the Ancient World
   Nick Fox - Decathlon
   Nick Fox - Roman Life
   Grace Gilmour - MS Girls Softball Throw
   Jack Guttell - Vocabulary
   Caroline Graves - Sight Recitation II
   Gabbie Hindera - Roman Life
   William Howard - Grammar Advanced
   Grace Jensen - MS Girls 50 Yard Dash
   Grace Jensen - MS Girls 100 Yard Dash
   Gillean Kelly - Latin Literature
   James Krajicek - Roman History
   Robert Luke - Roman History
   Robert Luke - Geography of the Ancient World
   Alessandra Massa - Greek Life and Literature
   Ellie McDaniel - Sight Recitation III (Prose)
   Noah Mele - Greek History
   Zack Osborne - Grammar Advanced
   Zack Osborne - Latin Derivatives
   Will Pearson - Vocal Ensemble
   Mariah Sager - Greek Derivatives
   Katherine Salinas - Sight Recitation
   Janson Shrock - Reading Comprehension
   Janson Shrock - MS Boys 100 Yard Dash
   Reeves Smith - Latin Literature
   Taylor Thompson - Ancient Geography
   Taylor Thompson - MS Boys Long Jump
   Trace Turner - Vocal Ensemble
   Hannah Winslett - HS Girls 50 Yard Dash
   Jonathan Zornio - Geography of the Ancient World
   3rd Place
   Layne Alam - Mythology
   Mark Ashworth - Decathlon
   Andrew Barron - Roman Life
   Andrew Barron - HS Boys 200 Yard Dash
   Max Bartee - Vocabulary
   Harrison Benson - Polychromatic Art (Area F)
   Harrison Benson - Play
   Quinn Bingham - Greek Derivatives
   Quinn Bingham - MS Girls Softball Throw
   Brendan Bowyer - Decathlon
   Connor Brucker - Play
   Asa Buehler - Roman History
   Connor Brucker - Greek History
   Joel Campbell - Latin Oratory II
   Joel Campbell - Play
   Frankie Chen - Decathlon
   Katie Cowan - Greek Life & Literature
   Charlie Dennis - Greek Life and Literature
   Bethany Dollar - MS Girls Long Jump
   Caroline Graves - Play
   Jack Guttell - Grammar
   Tom Hogan - Roman Life
   Grace Jensen - MS Girls 200 Yard Dash
   Sara Kane - Latin Literature
   Sara Kane - Play
   Simran Frontain - Play
   Gillean Kelly - Reading Comprehension Advanced Poetry
   Ellie McDaniel - Roman Life
   Rachel Nezzer - Mythology
   Rachel Nezzer - Vocabulary
   Will Pearson - Sight Recitation IV+ (Poetry)
   Will Pearson - Vocal Solo
   Walton Schmidt - Decathlon
   John Sealy - Greek Derivatives
   Matthew Tobias - MS Boys 100 Yard Dash
   Matthew Tobias - MS Boys Long Jump
   Ariana Weiss - Play
   Hannah Winslett - HS Girls 100 Yard Dash
   Pentathlon Results
   Summa Cum Laude: Layne Alam, Frankie Chen, Bryce Deskins, Nate Eakman,
   Nick Fox, Henry Gaudin, Olivia Hindera, Tom Hogan, Zachary Osborne,
   Katherine Salinas, Jaron Shrock, Wesley Wiedenmeier, Evan Young,
   Jonathan Zornio
   Maxima Cum Laude: Alexandra Ameel, Mark Ashworth, Max Bartee, Quinn
   Bingham, Brendan Bowyer, Connor Brucker, Asa Buehler, Carson Carroll,
   Madeline Chastain, Elizabeth Curtin, Charlie Dennis, Sam Fason, Molly
   Fox, Simran Frontain, Sam Garrison, Kathryn Gernstein, Logan Giberson,
   William Howard, Grace Jensen, Sara Kane, James Krajicek, Alessandra
   Massa, Ellie McDaniel, William McKinnerney, Pouya Mohammadi, Cameron
   Osborn, Will Pearson, Jack Reed, Mariah Sager, Cameron Scott, John
   Sealy, Lex Searcy, Janson Shrock, Reeves Smith, Taylor Thompson,
   Matthew Tobias, Hannah Winslett
   Magna Cum Laude: Andrew Barron, Harrison Benson, Connor Blake,
   Catherine Brady, Joel Campbell, Katie Cowan, Bethany Dollar, Christian
   Erben, Kate Fox, Grace Gilmour, Caroline Graves, Will Greskovich, Jack
   Guttell, Bri Hardeman, Gabbie Hindera, Gillean Kelly, Maya Kidd, Robert
   Luke, Noah Mele, Michelle Robles, Maura Salgo, Walton Schmidt, Jackie
   Smith, Trace Turner, Ariana Weiss
   Cum Laude: Oliver Chapin-Eiserloh Noah Ford, Ingrid Hoff, Nolan
   McNearney, Char Quach
   Id.
   Dec.
   13 Dec 12

St. Andrew's Certamen Wins Awards at Crusader Classic

   Last Saturday on December 8, St. Andrew's hosted the annual Cru Classic
   Certamen tournament. Everyone helped set up for the tournament the
   night before, moving desks around and lugging Certamen machines to set
   up the rooms for the competition. Our own Certamen teams competed, and
   every single one made it into the finals! The Middle school consisting
   of Walton Schmidt, Kady Salinas, Janson Shrock, and Rachel Nezzer
   placed second. Marshall Wilson, Mark Ashworth, Tom Hogan, and Max
   Bartee of our Novice team placed first. Our Intermediate team made up
   of Bryce Deskins, Ariana Weiss, Wesley Weidenmeier, and Jonathan Zornio
   came in third. And, our Advanced team consisting of Olivia Hindera,
   Reeves Smith, Zack Osborne, and Robert Luke secured second place. After
   another successful Crusader Classic tournament, please help us
   congratulate everyone!
   Middle School: 2nd Walton Schmidt, Kady Salinas, Janson Shrock, Rachel
   Nezzer
   Novice: 1st Marshall Wilson, Mark Ashworth, Tom Hogan, Max Bartee
   Intermediate: 3rd Bryce Deskins, Ariana Weiss, Wesley Weidenmeier,
   Jonathan Zornio
   Advanced: 2nd Olivia Hindera, Reeves Smith, Robert Luke, Zack Osborne
   We are also incredibly grateful to our wonderful parent and student
   volunteers who helped to make the tournament run smoothly.
   prid. Id.
   Nov.
   12 Nov 12

Certamen Teams Compete at Clark Certamen

   On November 10, St. Andrew's competed in the Clark Certamen Tournament
   in San Antonio. The Advanced A Team, led by mythology specialist Olivia
   Hindera, grammar specialist Zack Osborne, history specialist Robert
   Luke, and literature specialist Reeves Smith, made it to the finals in
   the Clark tournament-- one of the toughest tournaments in Texas. Trace
   Turner, Asa Buehler, and Sara Kane competed on the B team, and Nate
   Eakman, Mariah Sager, and Jaron Shrock competed on the C team and
   represented St. Andrew's very well along with Intermediate team members
   Bryce Deskins, Ariana Weiss, Wesley Wiedenmeier, Jonathan Zornio,
   Harrison Benson, and Caroline Graves. Congratulations to all our St.
   Andrew's Teams who competed at the Clark Tournament!
   prid. Id.
   Nov.
   12 Nov 12

Two Upper Schoolers appointed to TSJCL Office

   Senior Reeves Smith has been appointed to become the Torch Editors for
   TSJCL Torch for 2012-2013! This marks the sixth consecutive year in a
   row that an SAS student has held this title. As Torch Editor, Reeves
   will be in charge of making the TSJCL newsletter that goes out to
   schools. Also, Wesley Wiedenmeier has become the webmaster for TSJCL!
   As Webmaster, he will be editing the TSJCL website and will be keeping
   it up to date. Congratulate these two on their arrival into office!
   a. d. IIII
   Kal. Sep.
   29 Aug 12

Eruption of Mt. Vesuvius Celebrated

   On August 27, Latin students witnessed the eruption of Mt. Vesuvius in
   cake form. Although it was a tragedy when the volcano erupted in August
   AD 79, the eruption of Mt. Vesuvius brought forth much to celebrate for
   Latin students. For, without this disaster 1,933 years ago, we would
   never have discovered so much about the daily life of the Romans.
   Therefore, to celebrate the anniversary of the eruption, St. Andrew's
   Latin students take apart and eat an erupting chocolate every year. The
   Latin Club thanks Mrs. Osborn whose sugary volcanic edifice made it
   another day to remember.
   Id.
   Aug.
   13 Aug 12

Upper and Middle School Students Compete and Win at NJCL Convention at Wake
Forest

   St. Andrew's Latin Club Attends National Junior Classical League
   Convention
   Seventeen members of the St. Andrew's Latin Club participated in the
   2012 National Junior Classical League convention that was held at Wake
   Forest University in Winston-Salem, North Carolina from July 26th to
   the 31st. Participants competed in athletics (such as swimming, soccer,
   and ultimate Frisbee), art contests, and daily academic exams. Many of
   the students placed in the top ten of their respective competitions,
   including Academic Tests, Graphic Arts, Writing Competitions, and Ludi
   Sports. Students also assembled for state fellowship and general
   assemblies, where they competed to show their spirit for their state,
   and marched in the Spirit Procession wearing their best Roman costumes
   along with about 1500 other Latin students from across the nation. The
   trip also included river rafting and visits to the Biltmore Estate and
   several college campuses.
   The NJCL Convention is run in part by student officers elected by the
   delegates to the convention, and this year, rising St. Andrew's senior
   Trace Michael Turner, was elected to the position of National Editor.
   Trace will be responsible for the creation and publication of the
   NJCL's renowned publication, the Torch U.S. Trace has previously held
   the same position in the Texas State JCL. Trace will have a large hand
   in shaping and carrying out the agenda of the National Junior Classical
   League.
   Results for the individual events are listed below, but there is one
   achievement that must be noted first. When a student places in the top
   five in a contest at NJCL he or she receives "personal sweepstakes
   points." At the end of the convention awards are given for the most
   sweepstakes points in each category. Recent St. Andrew's graduate, Ali
   Campion, placed 8th in the Creative Arts Sweepstakes.
   Ali was also chosen as "best in class" for her Dramatic Interpretation
   and was therefore asked to perform it again at the awards ceremony and
   later for the NJCL National Committee who recorded it for their
   website. You will soon be able to see it at njcl.org.
   Full results:
   1st Place
   Ali Campion - Dramatic Interpretation Advanced - Girls
   Ali Campion - Sight Recitation IV+ (Poetry)
   Ali Campion - Computer-Enhanced Photography
   Walton Schmidt - Mottoes
   Walton Schmidt - Sight Recitation I
   2nd Place
   Rachel Deleery - Classical Art
   Nate Eakman - Modern Myth
   3rd Place
   Rachel Deleery - Open Certamen: Advanced
   Bryce Deskins - Classical Art
   Nate Eakman - Open Certamen: Intermediate
   Nolan McNearney - Sight Recitation I
   Katherine Salinas - Sight Recitation I
   4th Place
   Ali Campion - Games
   Ali Campion - Jewelry and Handicrafts
   Rachel Deleery - Greek Life and Literature
   Katherine Salinas - Traditional Photography
   5th Place
   Rachel Deleery - Mythology
   Olivia Hindera - Mottoes
   Emma Richardson - Vocabulary
   Emma Richardson - Sight Recitation IV+ (Poetry)
   Trace Turner - Traditional Photography
   6th Place
   Noelle Brimble - Dramatic Interpretation Advanced - Girls
   Ali Campion - Classical Art
   Ali Campion - Dolls
   Rachel Deleery - Latin Literature
   Emma Richardson - Reading Comprehension Advanced Poetry
   Trace Turner - Illustrated Quotes
   Nolan McNearney - Greek Life and Literature
   7th Place
   Ali Campion - Traditional Photography
   Rachel Deleery - Decorative Stitching
   Emma Richardson - Grammar Advanced
   Katherine Salinas - Latin Derivatives
   Walton Schmidt - Latin Derivatives
   8th Place
   Bryce Deskins - Greek Life and Literature
   Nate Eakman - Mythology
   Nate Eakman - Reading Comprehension II
   Dawson Henderson - 50 yard Freestyle Boys
   Olivia Hindera - Classical Art
   Cameron Osborn - Monochromatic drawing
   Nolan McNearney - Greek History
   9th Place
   Ali Campion - Essay
   Rachel Deleery - Geography of the Ancient World
   Rachel Deleery - Greek History
   William Howard - Dramatic Interpretation Advanced - Boys
   Emma Richardson - Latin Derivatives
   Emma Richardson - Traditional Photography
   Mariah Sager - Sight Recitation IV+ (Poetry)
   Trace Turner - Classical Art
   Katherine Salinas - Vocabulary
   Katherine Salinas - Polychromatic drawing
   10th Place
   Rachel Deleery - Roman Life
   Bryce Deskins - 50 yard Freestyle Jr. Boys
   William Howard - Classical Art
   Katherine Salinas - Reading Comprehension I
   Non.
   Mai.
   7 May 12

Upper School Latin Students Receive Medals for the National Roman
Civilization Exam

   In March, seven Upper school Latin students participated in the online
   National Roman Civilization Exam, which tests students' knowledge of
   Roman History and Roman Daily Life. Of the seven participants four
   received recognition for their performance on the exam.
   Receiving Gold Medals
   Rachel Deleery
   Olivia Hindera
   Robert Luke
   Receiving Silver Medals
   Trace Turner
   a. d. XIII
   Kal. Mai.
   19 Apr 12

Upper School Students Excel on the National Latin Exam

   On February 29th, Latin students at the Upper school took the National
   Latin Exam. They were joined by and competed with over 150,000 students
   from all 50 states and 13 foreign countries including Australia,
   Canada, China, France, Germany, Iran, Italy, Japan, New Zealand,
   Poland, Taiwan, the United Kingdom, and Zimbabwe. There are separate
   exams for different levels of Latin, and students in each level are
   awarded medals (gold and silver) for high achievement. Forty-eight
   Upper School students were recognized with some kind of award. Sixteen
   students received Gold Medals and twelve received Silver Medals, the
   two highest awards on the exam. Two students, Jaron Shrock and Zachary
   Osborne received perfect scores on the exam.
   Gold Medals (Summa Cum Laude)
   Frankie Chen
   Bryce Deskins
   Nate Eakman
   Sam Fason
   Nick Fox
   Logan Giberson
   Olivia Hindera
   Sara Kane
   Annika Mele
   Andy Newell
   Zack Osborne
   Will Pearson
   Emma Richardson
   Mariah Sager
   Jaron Shrock
   Evan Young
   Silver Medals (Maxima Cum Laude)
   Kathryn Gernstein
   William Howard
   Parker Kell
   Gillean Kelly
   Alex Lewis
   Cameron Osborn
   Catherine Pace
   Tristan Reed
   Michelle Robles
   John Sealy
   Reeves Smith
   Wesley Wiedenmeier
   Magna Cum Laude
   Sam Andrews
   Connor Brucker
   Ali Campion
   Rachel Deleery
   Charlie Dennis
   Patrick Dunham
   Bri Hardeman
   Gabbie Hindera
   Julia Josowitz
   Annie Osborne
   Jade Ross
   Lance Sharp
   Kendle Windham
   Hannah Winslett
   Cum Laude
   Connor Blake
   Madeline Chastain
   Simran Frontain
   Ingrid Hoff
   Jared Samuels
   Trace Turner
   prid. Kal.
   Apr.
   31 Mar 12

Latin Students Compete at TSJCL Convention; Olivia Hindera Elected Treasurer
of Texas State JCL

   On March 30 and 31, St. Andrew's Upper School students competed at the
   Texas State Junior Classical League convention at Clark High School in
   San Antonio, Texas. Students participated in academic, artistic, and
   athletic contests.
   Two Austin-area Certamen teams that included students from St. Andrew's
   competed in the state tournament. The advanced division team, including
   St. Andrew's students: Emma Richardson, Rachel Deleery, Connor Butler,
   and Olivia Hindera, placed second by a very close margin. The novice
   division team including St. Andrew's students: Bryce Deskins and Dawson
   Henderson placed second after a hard-fought final round.
   Congratulations to these Certamen players!
   Every year at the TSJCL convention, the member schools elect a board of
   student officers to lead the organization for the following year. This
   year three St. Andrew's students have served as officers, Trace Turner
   as Editor of the organization's publication, the "Torch," Jade Ross as
   Treasurer, and Ali Campion as President. At the convention this year,
   Olivia Hindera ran for the office of Treasurer, which she easily won.
   Olivia will serve as Treasurer of the Texas State Junior Classical
   League during the next year, joining Middle Schooler Walton Schmidt,
   the Area F Chair, on the board.
   Two students won an award for having the highest score for their
   individual contests in any level: Ali Campion received the high score
   award for Sight Recitation and Rachel Deleery scored the highest in the
   Pentathlon, a test taken by every student at convention.
   Here are the complete results:
   1st Place
   Emma Richardson - Latin Derivatives
   Emma Richardson - Grammar Advanced
   Reeves Smith - Mottoes
   Jade Ross - Mottoes
   Ali Campion - Dramatic Interpretation Advanced - Girls
   Ali Campion - Sight Recitation IV+ (Poetry)
   Dawson Henderson - Open Certamen
   Patrick Dunham - Ludi Ultimate Frisbee
   Walton Schmidt - Mottoes
   2nd Place
   Olivia Hindera - Mottoes
   Rachel Deleery - Mythology
   Rachel Deleery - Latin Literature
   Will Pearson - Sight Recitation IV+ (Poetry)
   Hannah Winslett - Girls 40 M Dash
   Bri Hardeman - Girls 100 M Dash
   Gillean Kelly - Girls 400 M Dash
   Bryce Deskins - Open Certamen
   Caroline Graves - Sight Recitation
   3rd Place
   Olivia Hindera - Mythology
   Madeline Chastain - Oil or Acrylic
   Jade Ross - Girls Softball Throw
   Nate Eakman - Open Certamen
   Noah Ford - Boys Frisbee Throw
   Grace Jensen - Latin Derivatives
   Will Josowitz - Greek Derivatives
   4th Place
   Jaron Shrock - Grammar Advanced
   Trace Turner - Mythology
   Connor Butler - Roman History
   Connor Butler - Roman Life
   Jaron Shrock - Latin Oratory Advanced
   Catherine Pace - Sight Recitation III (Prose)
   Nolan McNearney - Greek Life & Literature
   5th Place
   Mariah Sager - Latin Derivatives
   Jade Ross - Reading Comprehension Advanced Prose
   Nate Eakman - Mythology
   Robert Luke - Geography of the Ancient World
   Charlie Dennis - Dramatic Interpretation Advanced - Boys
   Noelle Brimble - Dramatic Interpretation Advanced - Girls
   Gabbie Hindera - Dramatic Interpretation Advanced - Girls
   Noah Ford - Couples Costume
   Jade Ross - Polychromatic drawing (State)
   Annie Osborne - Scrapbook
   Evan Young - Couples Costume
   Andrew Barron - Boys Softball Throw
   William McKinnerney - Sight Recitation
   Students receiving summa cum laude awards for the Pentathlon: Andrew
   Barron, Asa Buehler, Connor Butler, Carson Carroll, Frankie Chen,
   Rachel Deleery, Bryce Deskins, Nate Eakman, McLean Ewbank, Dawson
   Henderson, Olivia Hindera, William Howard, Julia Josowitz, Gillean
   Kelly, Robert Luke, Annika Mele, Andy Newell, Rachel Nezzer, Cameron
   Osborn, Zack Osborne, Will Pearson, Emma Richardson, Mariah Sager,
   Walton Schmidt, Jaron Shrock, Reeves Smith, Taylor Thompson, Trace
   Turner, Evan Young
   Students receiving maxima cum laude awards for the Pentathlon: Ali
   Campion, Charlie Dennis, Bethany Dollar, Patrick Dunham, Sam Fason,
   Logan Giberson, Bri Hardeman, Gabbie Hindera, Ingrid Hoff, Grace
   Jensen, Will Josowitz, Catherine Pace, Tristan Reed, Jade Ross,
   Katherine Salinas
   Students receiving magna cum laude awards for the Pentathlon: Connor
   Blake, Noelle Brimble, Noah Ford, Eliana Gill, Caroline Graves, Alex
   Lewis, William McKinnerney, Noah Mele, Michelle Robles, Lance Sharp,
   Hannah Winslett
   Students receiving cum laude awards for the Pentathlon: Madeline
   Chastain, Christian Erben, Simran Frontain, Kathryn Gernstein,
   Madeleine Mele
   Overall, the Upper School placed 6th in Upper Division Sweepstakes,
   making us the highest-ranked SPC school at the event.
   The Latin teachers would like to thank John and Cheryl Hindera along
   with Cindy Luongo-Cassidy and John Cassidy for helping to ferry
   supplies and students around during the convention. Thanks also to all
   the parents who donated food and showed up to watch candidates'
   speeches and Certamen finals. Good luck to all as we prepare for
   Nationals this summer at Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem, NC.
   a. d. III
   Kal. Feb.
   30 Jan 12

Upper School Students Win Medals for the National Classical Etymology Exam

   In November of 2011, 24 Upper School Latin students participated in the
   National Classical Etymology Exam, testing their knowledge of the Greek
   and Latin roots of English words. Eleven of these students received
   recognition for their performance on the exam in the form of a gold,
   silver or bronze medal.
   Receiving Gold Medals:
   Simran Frontain
   Olivia Hindera
   Zack Osborne
   John Sealy
   Receiving Silver Medals:
   Connor Blake
   Connor Butler
   Rachel Deleery
   Bryce Deskins
   Receiving Bronze Medals:
   Kathryn Gernstein
   Alex Lewis
   Hannah Winslett
   a. d. XVI
   Kal. Feb.
   17 Jan 12

Latin Students Compete at 2012 Area Convention

   On Friday, January 13 and Saturday, January 14 the St. Andrew's Upper
   School Latin Club attended Area F Latin Convention at Westlake High
   School. Our Novice certamen team composed of Bryce Deskins, Carson
   Carroll, Dawson Henderson, and captain Wesley Wiedenmeier advanced to
   finals and won third place in a tight round in which they finished 10
   points out of first. The Intermediate certamen team Connor Brucker, Asa
   Buehler, Zack Osborne, captain Nate Eakman, and alternate Alex Lewis
   won second place. The Advanced team (Olivia Hindera, Emma Richardson,
   Rachel Deleery, and captain Connor Butler with alternates Frankie Chen,
   Robert Luke, Jaron Shrock, Reeves Smith, and Trace Turner) won first
   place and will represent the area at the state tournament. The middle
   school team comprised of McLean Ewbank, Henry Gaudin, Marco Quaroni,
   and Walton Schmidt won second place after five tossups were necessary
   to break the tie with Hill Country Christian Academy. The team would
   like to thank manager William McKinnerney and alternates Caroline
   Graves, Will Josowitz, Rachel Nezzer, and Ariana Weiss for their
   support.
   As a school, St. Andrew's Upper School took second in the overall
   academic sweepstakes, calculated by assigning points for first, second,
   and third place finishes. Four students were recognized for having the
   highest score at any level on their tests: Connor Butler in Roman Life,
   Jade Ross in Mottoes, Ali Campion in Dramatic Interpretation, and Emma
   Richardson in Latin Derivatives and Advanced Grammar. Additionally,
   Nate Eakman and Olivia Hindera got the highest score on the Pentathlon
   of all students in their level (Latin II and Latin III, respectively),
   a great accomplishment as every student at the convention takes that
   contest.
   Middle Schooler Walton Schmidt was elected the next Area F Chairperson
   at the convention, which is an office in the Texas State Junior
   Classical League. Walton will be charged with, among other things,
   coordinating next year's convention, which will take place at St.
   Andrew's Middle School.
   The individual awards follow:
   1st Place
   Asa Buehler - Geography of the Ancient World
   Connor Butler - Roman Life
   Ali Campion - Dramatic Interpretation Advanced - Girls
   Ali Campion - Girls Costume
   Charlie Dennis - Dramatic Interpretation Advanced - Boys
   Sam Fason - Geography of the Ancient World
   Sam Fason - Reading Comprehension Advanced Prose
   Nick Fox - Decathlon
   Henry Gaudin - Latin Derivatives
   Henry Gaudin - Mottoes
   Caroline Graves - Sight Recitation
   Olivia Hindera - Mythology
   Olivia Hindera - Mottoes
   Ellie McDaniel - Sight Recitation II
   Nolan McNearney - Greek Life & Literature
   Zack Osborne - Decathlon
   Catherine Pace - Sight Recitation III (Prose)
   Emma Richardson - Grammar Advanced
   Emma Richardson - Latin Derivatives
   Jade Ross - Mottoes
   Jade Ross - Softball Throw
   Jaron Shrock - Grammar Advanced
   Jaron Shrock - Latin Oratory Advanced
   Jaron Shrock - Softball Throw
   Wesley Wiedenmeier - Vocabulary
   2nd Place
   Sam Andrews - Vocabulary
   Andrew Barron - Roman Life
   Asa Buehler - Roman History
   Connor Butler - Roman History
   Noelle Brimble - Dramatic Interpretation Advanced - Girls
   Ali Campion - Vocal Ensemble
   Frankie Chen - Grammar Advanced
   Frankie Chen - 400 yd. Relay
   Rachel Deleery - Decathlon
   Rachel Deleery - Latin Literature
   Juliette Dell - 50 yd. Dash
   Juliette Dell - 100 yd. Dash
   Juliette Dell - 200 yd. Dash
   Charlie Dennis - Vocal Ensemble
   Bryce Deskins - Greek History
   Nate Eakman - Mythology
   Sam Fason - 400 yd. Relay
   Noah Ford - 400 yd. Relay
   Eliana Gill - Vocal Ensemble
   Robert Luke - Geography of the Ancient World
   Annie Osborne - Vocal Ensemble
   Catherine Pace - Vocal Ensemble
   Will Pearson - Sight Recitation IV+ (Poetry)
   Will Pearson - Vocal Ensemble
   Marco Quaroni - Roman Life
   Jade Ross - Polychromatic Art (Area F)
   Jared Samuels - Greek Life and Literature
   Walton Schmidt - Mottoes
   Reeves Smith - Mottoes
   Reeves Smith - Vocal Ensemble
   Reeves Smith - Softball Throw
   Reeves Smith - 400 yd. Relay
   Taylor Thompson - Decathlon
   Trace Turner - Vocal Ensemble
   Ariana Weiss - Decathlon
   Wesley Wiedenmeier - Latin Derivatives
   3rd Place
   Andrew Barron - Reading Comprehension Advanced Poetry
   Connor Butler - Play
   Ali Campion - Sight Recitation IV+ (Poetry)
   Ali Campion - Play
   Ali Campion - Softball Throw
   Carson Carroll - Roman History
   Frankie Chen - 200 yd. Dash
   Charlie Dennis - Play
   Nate Eakman - Decathlon
   Simran Frontain - Dramatic Interpretation II - Girls
   Eliana Gill - Play
   Dawson Henderson - Greek History
   William Howard - Play
   Robert Luke - Roman History
   Cameron Osborn - Vocabulary
   Cameron Osborn - Grammar Advanced
   Annie Osborne - Vocal Solo
   Michelle Robles - Greek Life and Literature
   Michelle Robles - Latin Literature
   Jade Ross - Reading Comprehension Advanced Poetry
   Mariah Sager - Latin Derivatives
   Reeves Smith - Play
   Reeves Smith - Frisbee Toss
   Trace Turner - Mythology
   Trace Turner - Play
   Hannah Winslett - Roman Life
   Evan Young - Mottoes
   Bethany Dollar - Sight Recitation
   Grace Jensen - Decathlon
   Rachel Nezzer - Latin Literature
   Davison Thompson - Ancient Geography
   Receiving summa cum laude awards for the Pentathlon were: Sam Andrews,
   Hana Arriaga, Connor Brucker, Asa Buehler, Frankie Chen, Rachel
   Deleery, Bryce Deskins, Nate Eakman, McLean Ewbank, Sam Fason, Nick
   Fox, Henry Gaudin, Caroline Graves, Olivia Hindera, William Howard,
   Julia Josowitz, Isabel Laubach, Alex Lewis, Rachel Nezzer, Cameron
   Osborn, Annie Osborne, Zack Osborne, Marco Quaroni, Emma Richardson,
   Mariah Sager, Vincent Searcy, Walton Schmidt, Jaron Shrock, Trace
   Turner, Wesley Wiedenmeier.
   Receiving maxima cum laude awards for the Pentathlon were: Andrew
   Barron, Noelle Brimble, Connor Butler, Carson Carroll, Charlie Dennis,
   Bethany Dollar, Kathryn Gernstein, Logan Giberson, Dawson Henderson,
   Parker Kell, Gillean Kelly, Lizzie Leighty, Robert Luke, Ellie
   McDaniel, Will Pearson, Charhong Quach, Michelle Robles, Jade Ross,
   Katherine Salinas, Reeves Smith, Taylor Thompson, Hannah Winslett.
   Receiving magna cum laude awards for the Pentathlon were: Connor Blake,
   Ali Campion, Madeleine Chastain, Patrick Dunham, Noah Ford, Simran
   Frontain, Sam Garrison, Eliana Gill, Grace Jensen, Will Josowitz, Sara
   Kane, William McKinnerney, Noah Mele, Andy Newell, Catherine Pace,
   Jared Samuels, John Sealy, Olivia Smith, Davison Thompson, Ariana
   Weiss, Evan Young.
   Receiving cum laude awards for the Pentathlon were: Quinn Bingham,
   Juliette Dell, Christian Erben, Kate Fox, Ingrid Hoff, Nolan McNearney,
   Max Schotz, Lance Sharp.
   a. d. XIII
   Kal. Dec.
   19 Nov 11

St. Andrew's Teams Compete at Crusader Classic

   Everyone better watch out! St. Andrew's Latin Club is heating up once
   again and doing what each and every student does best: performing
   fantastically! St. Andrew's certamen teams competed in the Crusader
   Classic, a tournament that is co-hosted by the St. Michael's and St.
   Andrew's Latin clubs, on Saturday, November 19th and definitely did not
   leave empty handed. The Middle School team came placed 2nd, Novice and
   Intermediate took 3rd place, and the Advanced team rounded it all off
   with a 1st place. There is only more one tournament before the Area
   competition. Congratulations players and good luck!
   Middle School - 2nd Place: Henry Gaudin, Will Josowitz, Marco Quaroni,
   and Walton Schmidt
   Novice - 3rd Place: Dawson Henderson and Carson Carroll
   Intermediate - 3rd Place: Nate Eakman, Zack Osborne, Asa Buehler,
   Connor Brucker
   Advanced - 1st Place: Emma Richardson, Robert Luke, Olivia Hindera,
   Connor Butler
   Id.
   Nov.
   13 Nov 11

Latin Students Compete at Yale Certamen Tournament

   Last weekend 17 students from St. Andrew's went to New Haven,
   Connecticut for the Yale Certamen Tournament. Competing against schools
   from all over the nation, St. Andrew's teams made semifinals in all
   three levels, and the intermediate team consisting of Connor Brucker,
   Asa Buehler, Nate Eakman, Logan Giberson, and Alex Lewis recieved
   fourth place overall. Congratulations to all and good luck at this
   weekend's Crusader Classic.
   prid. Non.
   Oct.
   6 Oct 11

Dies Lustricus

   Picture this: you walk into a dark class room where the only light
   given off is from a single candle. You look to your left, the couch and
   mini fridge are still there, you look to your right and what do you
   see? A Latin teacher garbed in a white bed sheet with only their hands
   showing. You slowly take your seat and anticipate what is to happen.
   This is what happens to a Latin student on Dies Lustricus, or the day
   of naming. Dies Lustricus is a very important day to the Romans, and to
   St. Andrew Latin students. Itâs kind of like the students ignogeration
   into SAS Latin. Because the Romans would wait nine days after a baby
   was born to make sure it survive, SAS Latin waits around nine days to
   see who will âsurviveâ Latin class. On this day the child would
   receive, from a priest dressed in a white robe, a bulla. A bulla is a
   necklace with a round pendant that protects a child from the evil eye.
   Oh, that would explain why the Latin teacher is wearing a white bed
   sheet! Imitating the priests!
   Next scene: you walk up to your Latin teacher and hand to them your
   bulla. After handing the
   scary-Latin-teacher-dressed-in-a-white-bed-sheet your bulla you tell
   the class, in Latin, your new name. Then, BAM! A tree branch is being
   shook above you and causing water to fall onto you! Whatâs that? The
   Latin teacher is saying funny stuff in Latin! Then you walk back to
   your seat, your ceremony is over, and you have been accepted as a St.
   Andrewâs Latin student.
   And this friends, is what happens on Dies Lustricus. You receive your
   Latin name, and have an entertainingâyet slightly frighteningâceremony.
   As tradition serves, this is what each Latin student must participate
   in every year to receive their Latin name.
   a. d. VI
   Id. Oct.
   10 Oct 11

Cookie Dough Available from your Favorite Latin Club Member until Friday
October 14th

   We are currently half way through our annual cookie dough sale.
   Students this year are selling a high quality cookie dough along with
   soft pretzels, pretzel dogs, and pizzas. If you are interested in
   purchasing cookie dough, you can find your favorite Latin Club member
   or order online, through the link above. We would like to thank the
   community for supporting our program through the Cookie Dough Sale.
   a. d. III
   Kal. Oct.
   29 Sep 11

Toga Exchange October 9 at the Lower School

   The date for the toga exchange has been set for Sunday, October 9th
   from 1:30-3:30. It will take place in the outdoor amphitheater on the
   Lower School Campus. In the case of rain, the event will be moved to
   the nearby sixth grade hallway.
   Costume materials are still being accepted by both Mr. Michaud and Ms.
   Dill. Materials will also be accepted on the day of the exchange.
   a. d. VII
   Id. Sep.
   7 Sep 11

Toga Exchange!

   This year the Latin Department will be sponsoring a toga/tunic/stola
   exchange before the Latin Banquet. No date has been set for the
   exchange, but we are starting to collect items. Please bring old Latin
   Banquet costumes to donate to the exchange to Ms. Dill's room (59 in
   the 6th grade wing) on the 31st St. campus or to Mr. Michaud's room
   (901) on the Upper School campus.
   Non.
   Sep.
   5 Sep 11

Mons Vesuvius

   The Upper School Latin students are bringing history to life in the
   classroom by celebrating the memorial of the eruption of Mt. Vesuvius,
   the ancient volcano which destroyed Pompeii and other towns around the
   bay of Naples. The Upper School Latin Club historian writes:
   Every year on August 24 students gather in Ms. Luongo's room to
   remember the eruption of Mt. Vesuvius. It's an important day in Latin
   history, as this eruption preserved four towns, burying them in ash and
   lava. The Latin Club celebrates this day by baking a cake of course!
   Mrs. Osborn so kindly baked a chocolate cake in the shape of a volcano
   and left a hole in the center for lava to erupt from. A little bit of
   vinegar was added and seconds later pink lava was flowing from the top!
   Each Latin student was given a slice of cake and allowed to enjoy the
   special day in the company of other Latin students, teachers and
   parents.
   prid. Non.
   Aug.
   4 Aug 11

Two St. Andrew's Students Finish Top in the Nation at National Latin
Convention

   Fifteen students from St. Andrew's Upper School participated in the
   2011 National Junior Classical League convention held at Eastern
   Kentucky University from July 25 to July 30. Many students excelled in
   their individual academic, creative arts, and graphic arts contests.
   The Advanced level Competitive Certamen team--comprised primarily of
   St. Andrew's students--also won third place in the national tournament.
   Additionally, another St. Andrew's student, Olivia Hindera, took second
   place in the Intermediate level Open Certamen tournament along with
   teammates from other states. During the week all conventioneers
   gathered for daily general assemblies where they competed to show their
   spirit. As the Texas State Junior Classical League president for
   2011-2012, St. Andrew's student Ali Campion led evening state
   fellowship meetings where Texas delegates prepared for the spirit
   competitions in addition to voting for next year's NJCL student officer
   board. Incoming TSJCL Editor, Trace Turner, also assisted Ali, along
   with the rest of the St. Andrew's delegation who worked hard to support
   her in role as President. On the final day of the convention all
   participants marched in the Day in Old Rome Procession through campus
   while wearing their best Roman costumes. This trip to Kentucky for the
   St. Andrew's group also included a Cincinnati Reds baseball game, a day
   of thrills at Kings Island Amusement Park, and a visit to the beautiful
   Newport Aquarium.
   Two remarkable students managed to finish not only in first place in
   their level of Latin, but achieved the high score overall at the
   convention: Scott Dollen on the Mythology test and Rachel Deleery on
   the Classical Art test. This high score recognition means the student
   answered the most questions correctly out of any student at the
   convention in these written contests.
   The Advanced Certamen team from St. Andrew's (plus one Westlake Chap
   this year), three--time defending state champions, represented the
   entire state of Texas in this level of the competitive tournament. The
   team was comprised of 2011 graduates Scott Dollen and Reid Swanger,
   Emma Richardson of the class of 2012, as well as Westlake High School
   2011 graduate Mark Stone. The competition was steep this year, however,
   and after a valiant climb to the second--seed position in semifinals
   these students found themselves playing the two great certamen
   powerhouse states of Florida and Virginia in the final round. Although
   all players made a great effort to outplay the competition by answering
   the challenging questions quickly and accurately, both the Florida and
   Virginia teams had pulled ahead as the final round neared its end.
   Although Texas was too far behind to catch up and place anywhere but
   third, they never gave up, continuing to play and attempting to answer
   questions correctly. Before the final question, when the score was
   Florida 130, Virginia 110, and Texas 60, Virginia had a chance to catch
   up and tie with Florida if they could answer the last question before
   the other teams. Texas captain Reid Swanger, however, took the question
   before Virginia could answer, locking in Florida as the champions.
   Although the Virginia players were most disappointed by the result, the
   Florida team sent grateful glances to the Texas players as they
   correctly answered the two following bonus questions. The final score
   was Florida 130, Virginia 110, and Texas 80. Although this hardworking
   Texas team from St. Andrew's did not finish first, they made their fans
   proud of their final round--never giving up and playing the last round
   like champions until the bitter end.
   The team would like to thank all their supporters--parents, friends,
   and teachers--as well as the alternate players who tirelessly practiced
   with the team throughout the summer: Connor Butler, Rachel Deleery,
   Nate Eakman, Olivia Hindera, Trace Turner, and team manager Catherine
   Pace. The team would also like to thank graduate Philip Swanger '08 for
   his help during the convention. The coaching staff--Jennie Luongo,
   Nathan Michaud, Andrew Rist, and Lauren Dill--is also grateful to the
   supportive parents for putting up with long practice hours to achieve
   this fantastic third place result.
   Here are the complete NJCL test results, highlighting the students who
   placed from 1st to 10th in their contests:
   FIRST PLACE
   Rachel Deleery -- Classical Art
   Scott Dollen -- Mythology
   SECOND PLACE
   Ali Campion -- Publications Contest
   Ali Campion -- Dramatic Interpretation, Girls' Poetry
   Ali Campion -- Sight Latin Recitation, Girls' Poetry
   Olivia Hindera -- Open Certamen, Intermediate Level
   Reid Swanger -- Roman History, Level 5
   THIRD PLACE
   Scott Dollen -- Roman Life, Level 5
   Christa Keefer -- Sight Latin Girls' Poetry
   FOURTH PLACE
   Nate Eakman -- Latin Literature, Level 1
   Nate Eakman -- Reading Comprehension, Level 1
   Olivia Hindera -- Classical Art, Level 2
   Reid Swanger -- Latin Literature, Level 5
   FIFTH PLACE
   Catherine Pace -- Sight Latin Recitation, Level 2 Girls
   Emma Richardson -- Latin Grammar, Level 4
   SIXTH PLACE
   Ali Campion -- Dolls handicrafts, Grade 11
   Rachel Deleery -- Mythology, Level 4
   Scott Dollen -- Latin Derivatives, Level 5
   Catherine Pace -- Traditional Photography, Grade 11
   Reid Swanger -- Ancient Geography, Level 5
   SEVENTH PLACE
   Scott Dollen -- Latin Literature, Level 5
   Olivia Hindera -- Mottoes, Level 2
   EIGHTH PLACE
   Connor Butler -- Roman Life, Level 3
   Nate Eakman -- Academic Heptathlon, Level 1
   Catherine Pace -- Essay, Grade 11 Girls
   Emma Richardson -- Mottoes, Level 4
   Reid Swanger -- Academic Heptathlon, Level 5
   NINTH PLACE
   Connor Butler -- Latin Literature, Level 3
   Rachel Deleery -- Greek Life & Literature, Level 4
   Reid Swanger -- Latin Vocabulary, Level 5
   TENTH PLACE
   Ali Campion -- Computer Enhanced Photography, Grade 11
   Ali Campion -- Jewelry handicrafts, Grade 11
   Ali Campion -- Traditional Photography, Grade 11
   Rachel Deleery -- Traditional State Scrapbook
   Mariah Sager -- Dramatic Interpretation, Girls' Poetry
   Mariah Sager -- Sight Latin Recitation, Girls' Prose
   Reid Swanger -- Academic Decathlon
   Reid Swanger -- Reading Comprehension: Prose, Level 5
   a. d. IIII
   Kal. Mai.
   28 Apr 11

St. Andrew's Students Excel on the National Latin Exam

   On March 2nd, Latin students at the Upper school took the National
   Latin Exam. They were joined by and competed with over 150,000 students
   from all 50 states and 12 foreign countries including Australia,
   Bulgaria, Canada, China, England, Italy, Japan, New Zealand, Poland,
   Zimbabwe, Iran, and Malaysia. There are separate exams for different
   levels of Latin, and students in each level are awarded medals (gold
   and silver) for high achievement. Forty-five Upper School students were
   recognized with some kind of award. Nineteen students received Gold
   Medals and fifteen received Silver Medals, the two highest awards on
   the exam.
   Gold Medals
   Nate Eakman
   Olivia Hindera
   Frankie Chen
   Jaron Shrock
   Sam Fason
   Nick Fox
   Julia Josowitz
   Annie Osborne
   Evan Young
   Patrick Davis
   Cameron Osborn
   Will Pearson
   Charlie Dennis
   William Howard
   Kendle Windham
   Emma Richardson
   Christa Keefer
   Daniel Martens
   Ali Campion
   Silver Medals
   Andy Newell
   Michelle Robles
   Gillean Kelly
   Tristan Reed
   Catherine Pace
   Reeves Smith
   Parker Kell
   Gabbie Hindera
   Brendan Ingram
   Connor Butler
   Trace Turner
   Bryant Bowyer
   Rachel Deleery
   Jade Ross
   Colin Vanderburg
   Magna Cum Laude
   Lancer Sharp
   Andrew Barron
   Bethany Holland
   Eliana Gill
   Patrick Dunham
   Max Schotz
   Mariah Sager
   Mason Osborn
   Reid Swanger
   Cum Laude
   Rachel Dimston
   Scott Dollen
   As a senior receiving a gold medal, Christa Keefer, has also received a
   scholarship application for the prestigious NLE scholarship.
   a. d. XVII
   Kal. Mai.
   15 Apr 11

Latin Students Win Awards on Roman Civilization Exam

   On February 14, eight Latin students at the Upper School competed in
   the online National Roman Civilization Exam. Seven were honored for
   their outstanding achievement on the exam with medals. Rachel Deleery,
   Mason Osborn, and Reid Swanger won gold medals. Rachel Dimston, Gabbie
   Hindera, and Trace Turner won silver medals. Connor Blake won a bronze
   medal. This is the second year that the National Roman Civilization
   Exam has been administered. Rachel Deleery and Rachel Dimston have won
   medals in each year of its existence.
   a. d. V
   Kal. Apr.
   28 Mar 11

Upper and Middle School Latin students compete at State JCL Convention;
Advanced Certamen players advance to Nationals; Ali Campion elected President
of the Texas State JCL.

   On March 25 and 26, St. Andrew's Upper School students competed at the
   Texas State Junior Classical League convention at Atascocita High
   School near Houston, Texas. Students participated in academic,
   artistic, and athletic contests.
   Two Austin-area Certamen teams that included students from St. Andrew's
   competed in the state tournament. The advanced division team, composed
   almost entirely of St. Andrew's students: Scott Dollen, Mason Osborn,
   Emma Richardson, and captain Reid Swanger, won for the third straight
   year. The novice division team including four St. Andrew's students:
   Nate Eakman, Alex Lewis, Lance Sharp, and Connor Blake placed second
   after a hard-fought final round. Congratulations to these Certamen
   players!
   Every year at the TSJCL convention, the member schools elect a board of
   student officers to lead the organization for the following year. This
   year two St. Andrew's students have served as officers, Rachel Deleery
   as Historian and Ali Campion as Editor of the organization's
   publication, the Torch. At the convention this year, Ali Campion ran
   for the office of President, which she won by a stunning number of
   votes. Ali will serve as President of the Texas State Junior Classical
   League during the next year.
   Three students won awards for having the highest score for their
   individual contests in any level: Scott Dollen in Mythology, Ali
   Campion in Dramatic Interpretation, and Reid Swanger in Roman History
   and the Academic Decathlon. For winning the high score on the
   Decathlon, Reid receives the title of Texas State Latin Student of the
   Year and a $1500 dollar prize.
   Here are the complete results:
   First Place
   Ali Campion - Dramatic Interp Advanced Level IV
   Scott Dollen - Mythology Level V+
   Scott Dollen - Roman Life Level V+
   Cameron Osborn - Open Certamen Advanced Level
   Reid Swanger - Decathlon Level V+
   Reid Swanger - History Level V+
   Second Place
   Ali Campion - Sight Recitation Level IV
   Rachel Deleery - Greek Life and Literature Level IV
   Mason Osborn - Reading Comprehension Advanced Prose Level V+
   Mason Osborn - Reading Comprehension Advanced Poetry Level V+
   Emma Richardson - Advanced Grammar Level IV
   Colin Vanderburg - Latin Literature Level V+
   Kendle Windham - Reading Comprehension Advanced Prose Level IV
   Third Place
   Rachel Deleery - Mythology Level IV
   Nate Eakman - Decathlon Level I
   Nate Eakman - Poetry
   Daniel Martens - Geography of the Ancient World Level IV
   Will Pearson - Sight Recitation Level III
   Kendle Windham - Roman Life Level IV
   Fourth Place
   Connor Butler - Original English Oratory
   Olivia Hindera - Mottoes and Abbreviations Level II
   Julia Josowitz - Electronic Art
   Annika Mele - Vocabulary Level 1/2 B
   Annika Mele - Roman Life Level 1/2 B
   Emma Richardson - Latin Derivatives Level IV
   Jade Ross - Poster
   Reeves Smith - Mottoes and Abbreviations Level III
   Fifth Place
   Bryant Bowyer - Roman History Level IV
   Colin Vanderburg - Advanced Grammar Level V+
   Students receiving summa cum laude awards for the Pentathlon: Bryant
   Bowyer, Connor Bulter, Frankie Chen, Rachel Deleery, Nate Eakman, Sam
   Fason, Olivia Hindera, Robert Luke, Mason Osborn, Emma Richardson,
   Lance Sharp, Reid Swanger.
   Students receiving maxima cum laude awards for the Pentathlon: Sam
   Andrews, Scott Dollen, Noah Ford, William Howard, Andy Newell, Annie
   Osborne, Catherine Pace, Jade Ross.
   Students receiving magna cum laude awards for the Pentathlon: Asa
   Buehler, Logan Giberson, Julia Josowitz, Gillean Kelly, Ben Lear, Alex
   Lewis, Annika Mele, Charhong Quach, Trace Turner.
   Students receiving cum laude awards for the Pentathlon: Connor Blake,
   Patrick Dunham, Kathryn Gernstein, Colin Hancock, Gabbie Hindera,
   Bethany Holland, Madeleine Mele, Michelle Robles.
   Overall, the Upper School placed 6th in Upper Division Sweepstakes,
   making us the highest-ranked SPC school at the event. Additionally, our
   club was recognized with the third place prize in the Latin Club of the
   Year contest.
   The Latin teachers would like to thank Donna Osborn for chaperoning
   this trip, and Marty and Derry Swanger, Shawna Butler, Kelley Shrock,
   Janet and Gary Eakman, Jeff Osborne, and Mike and Claudia Dollen for
   their help ferrying students between the various events in Houston.
   Thanks also to all the parents who donated food and showed up to watch
   candidates' speeches and Certamen finals. Good luck to all as we
   prepare for Nationals this summer at Eastern Kentucky University in
   Richmond, Kentucky.
   a. d. V
   Non. Mar.
   3 Mar 11

St. Andrew's Latin Clubs Experience Wild Success at 2011 Area Convention

   On Friday, February 25 and Saturday, February 26 the St. Andrew's Upper
   and Middle School Latin Clubs attended Area F Latin Convention at
   Pflugerville. Our Intermediate certamen team composed of Frankie Chen,
   Olivia Hindera, Sam Fason, and Captain Jaron Shrock advanced to finals
   and won third place. The Advanced certamen team (Scott Dollen, Mason
   Osborn, Emma Richardson, and Captain Reid Swanger) and the Novice team
   (Connor Blake, Nate Eakman, Captain Alex Lewis, and Lancer Sharp) both
   won first place and will represent the area at the state tournament.
   The Middle School certamen, composed of Asa Buehler, Logan Giberson,
   McLean Ewbank, Henry Gaudin, Marco Quaroni, and Davison Thompson missed
   playing in finals by 15 points.
   As a school, St. Andrew's Upper School took first in the overall
   academic sweepstakes, calculated by assigning points for first, second,
   and third place finishes. St. Andrew's beat every other school there in
   points amassed. The Middle School placed 5th in the overall sweepstakes
   for the middle school level. Five students were recognized for having
   the highest score at any level on their tests: Scott Dollen for
   Mythology and Roman Life, Mason Osborn for Reading Comprehension
   Advanced Prose and Reading Comprehension Advanced Poetry, Ali Campion
   for Sight Recitation and Dramatic Interpretation Advanced Prose, Jade
   Ross for Mottoes, and Reid Swanger for Roman History and Decathlon. As
   the winner of the high score on the Decathlon, Reid has been named the
   Armadillo Classical Society's Senior Scholar and has won a scholarship
   of $563, one dollar for every competitor in attendance. Additionally,
   Nate Eakman and Caroline Graves got the highest score on the Pentathlon
   of all students in their level (Latin I and Latin 1/2 A, respectively),
   a great accomplishment as every student at the convention takes that
   contest.
   The individual awards follow.
   Academic Contests
   First Place
   Sam Andrews: Roman Life Level III
   Asa Buehler: Ancient Geography Level 1/2 B
   Ali Campion: Sight Recitation Level IV
   Ali Campion: Dramatic Interpretation Girls Level IV
   Rachel Deleery: Mythology Level IV
   Scott Dollen: Mythology Level V+
   Scott Dollen: Roman Life Level V+
   Nate Eakman: Decathlon Level I
   Nate Eakman: Mythology Level I
   McLean Ewbank: Latin Literature Level 1/2 A
   Olivia Hindera: Mythology Level II
   Olivia Hindera: Mottoes and Phrases Level II
   Bethany Holland: Dramatic Interpretation Girls Level II
   Henry Gaudin: Mottoes Level 1/2 A
   Caroline Graves: Sight Recitation Level 1/2 A
   Robert Luke: Roman History Level III
   Annika Mele: Vocabulary Level 1/2 B
   Noah Mele: Roman History Level 1/2 A
   Mason Osborn: Reading Comprehension Advanced Poetry Level V+
   Mason Osborn: Reading Comprehension Advanced Prose Level V+
   Will Pearson: Sight Recitation Level III
   Jade Ross: Mottoes and Phrases Level IV
   Jared Samuels: Greek Life and Literature Level II
   Reeves Smith: Mottoes and Phrases Level III
   Reid Swanger: Roman History Level V+
   Reid Swanger: Decathlon Level V+
   Second Place
   Alex Adams: Latin Literature Level II
   Judith Allen: Greek Derivatives Level III
   Sam Andrews: Vocabulary Level III
   Connor Butler: Roman History Level III
   Frankie Chen: Advanced Grammar Level II
   Patrick Davis: Mottoes and Phrases Level III
   Rachel Deleery: Greek Life and Literature Level IV
   Sam Fason: Geography of the Ancient World Level II
   Colin Hancock: Ancient Geography Level 1/2 B
   Ingrid Hoff: Latin Literature Level III
   Alex Lewis: Mottoes and Phrases Level I
   Robert Luke: Geography of the Ancient World Level III
   Daniel Martens: Geography of the Ancient World Level IV
   Catherine Pace: Sight Recitation Level II
   Will Pearson: Decathlon Level III
   Marco Quaroni: Ancient Geography Level 1/2 A
   Emma Richardson: Latin Derivatives Level IV
   Jade Ross: Reading Comprehension Advanced Poetry Level IV
   Max Schotz: Dramatic Interpretation Boys Level III
   Jaron Shrock: Decathlon Level II
   Colin Vanderburg: Latin Literature Level V+
   Kendle Windham: Roman Life Level IV
   Third Place
   Connor Butler: Latin Literature Level III
   Bryant Bowyer: Roman History Level IV
   Patrick Dunham: Greek Derivatives Level II
   Kate Fox: Latin Derivatives Level 1/2 A
   Nick Fox: Decathlon Level II
   Logan Giberson: Vocabulary Level 1/2 B
   Caroline Graves: Roman Life Level 1/2 A
   Parker Kell: Reading Comprehension Advanced Poetry Level III
   Gillean Kelly: Sight Recitation Level II
   Madeleine Mele: Latin Derivatives Level 1/2 B
   Andy Newell: Geography of the Ancient World Level II
   Cameron Osborn: Vocabulary Level III
   Annie Osborne: Mythology Level II
   Emma Richardson: Advanced Grammar Level IV
   Michelle Robles: Greek Life and Literature Level II
   Mariah Sager: Dramatic Interpretation Girls Level III
   Vincent Searcy: Vocabulary Level 1/2 A
   Classical Civilization
   First Place
   Gabbie Hindera: Costume (Agave)
   Christine Snitkjaer: Monochromatic Art
   Second Place
   Connor Butler: Costume (Charon)
   Connor Butler: Play
   Ali Campion: Play
   Charlie Dennis: Play
   Kate Fox: Monochromatic Drawing Middle School Level
   Eliana Gill: Play
   William Howard: Play
   Daniel Martens: Couples Costume (Jupiter and Io)
   Will Pearson: Vocal Solo
   Will Pearson: Play
   Kendle Windham: Couples Costume (Jupiter and Io)
   Third Place
   Eliana Gill: Couples Costume (Jupiter and Io)
   Evan Young: Couples Costume (Jupiter and Io)
   Students receiving summa cum laude awards for the Pentathlon: Sam
   Andrews, Asa Buehler, Connor Butler, Frankie Chen, Patrick Davis,
   Rachel Deleery, Scott Dollen, Nate Eakman (High Score for Level I),
   McLean Ewbank, Sam Fason, Nick Fox, Logan Giberson, Caroline Graves
   (high score for Level 1/2 A), Henry Gaudin, Olivia Hindera, William
   Howard, Julia Josowitz, Alex Lewis, Robert Luke, Daniel Martens, Andy
   Newell, Cameron Osborn, Mason Osborn, Annie Osborne, Marco Quaroni,
   Emma Richardson, Jaron Shrock, Reid Swanger, Evan Young
   Students receiving maxima cum laude awards for the Pentathlon: Alex
   Adams, Andrew Barron, Bryant Bowyer, Ali Campion, Charlie Dennis, Tim
   Fallon, Kathryn Gernstein, Bethany Holland, Christa Keefer, Gillean
   Kelly, Noah Mele, Mason Neal, Will Pearson, Tristan Reed, Mariah Sager,
   Vincent Searcy, Lance Sharp, Reeves Smith, Trace Turner, Colin
   Vanderburg, Kendle Windham
   Students receiving magna cum laude awards for the Pentathlon: Judith
   Allen, Connor Blake, Patrick Dunham, Noah Ford, Kate Fox, Simran
   Frontain, Eliana Gill, Colin Hancock, Gabbie Hindera, Ingrid Hoff,
   Brendan Ingram, Ben Lear, Callie McConnico, Annika Mele, Catherine
   Pace, Michelle Robles, Jade Ross, Sara Thiessen, Davison Thompson,
   Jared Samuels
   Students receiving cum laude awards for the Pentathlon: Taylor Dill,
   Emily Dodds, Mason Ezell, Ana Marcks, Sam Martens, Madeleine Mele,
   Maryhelen Murray, Char Quach, Max Schotz, Christine Snitkjaer
   Thanks to everyone who has supported us this year, especially to
   Claudia Dollen and Cheryl Hindera, who coordinated food for the
   competitors. Congratulations to all the winners and bonam fortunam
   omnibus at State. The State Convention will be held on March 25-26 at
   Atascocita High School near Houston.
   Kal
   Feb.
   1 Feb 11

Westwood Certamen Tournament a success for St. Andrew's teams

   The St. Andrew's Latin Club is very proud to announce that once again
   our certamen teams have been doing their best representing the school.
   Over the weekend at Westwood High School our Advanced Team placed
   first, beating the other local teams once again. The Novice Team hit a
   home run and brought back another first place trophy for our Latin
   Club. The Intermediate Team narrowly missed first place and continues
   to make our school proud with their performance by placing second.
   Although the Middle School team did not make it into the final round
   for their level, they are working hard to make that goal a reality at
   the next tournament. The Latin Club would like to thank all members and
   parents who have helped support our teams.
   a. d. XIII
   Kal. Feb.
   20 Jan 11

Latin Students win Medals for the National Classical Etymology Exam

   On November 29th several Latin students participated in the online
   National Classical Etymology Exam, testing their knowledge of English
   words derived from Latin or Greek roots. Medals are awarded for
   outstanding achievement on the exam. Gabbie Hindera was awarded a
   bronze medal, and the following students won silver medals: Rachel
   Dimston, Rachel Deleery, Mason Osborn, and Catherine Pace.
   Congratulations go out to all the students who participated.
   a. d. VIII
   Id. Ian.
   6 Jan 11

Latin Club Hosts, Competes in, and Succeeds at the Crusader Classic

   On December 10th, the St. Andrew's Latin Club hosted and competed at
   the Crusader Classic Certamen Tournament. Sliding into first place at
   the Cru Classic was the Advanced team: Reid Swanger, Scott Dollen,
   Mason Osborn, and Emma Richardson; and the Novice team: Nate Eakman,
   Connor Blake, and Alex Lewis. Also, winning 2nd place was the
   intermediate team Olivia Hindera, Jaron Shrock, Frankie Chen, and Sam
   Fason. And finally, Logan Giberson, Asa Buehler, Ariana Weiss, and
   Marco Quaroni of the Middle School team stole third place. Many thanks
   to all the volunteers that helped make the Cru Classic happen and run
   smoothly; thanks to you St. Andrew's was able to successfully put on
   the Cru Classic and show the other schools what being a Crusader is all
   about!
   Kal
   Nov.
   1 Nov 10

Certamen teams brave traffic to compete at Clark tournament in San Antonio

   On October 30, the day before Halloween. Five teams from St. Andrew's
   Upper School and one from the Middle School competed at the Clark
   Certamen tournament against stiff competition. All teams performed
   well. With several teams just missing the final round. The defending
   national champion advanced team, consisting of captain Reid Swanger,
   Scott Dollen, Rachel Deleery, and Emma Richardson, did make it to the
   final round and emerged victorious, more than doubling the score of
   their closest competitor in the final round and blanking SPC rival St.
   Mary's Hall, thought to be their toughest competitor. The team
   attributes this victory to a bout of near psychicness from team
   captain, Reid Swanger, who repeatedly made jaw-dropping educated
   guesses. Said St. Mary's Hall captain, Andrew Margrave (clap clap, clap
   clap clap) in reference to Swanger's amazing final round, "that's just
   crazy."
   Congratulations to all teams. All of the teams are looking forward to
   the November 20th tournament at Crockett
   prid. Id.
   Oct.
   14 Oct 10

Latin Club Sells Cookie Dough, Community Rejoices

   With the announcement on October 5th that the Latin Club had begun to
   sell cookie dough again, an elated community has taken to the streets
   in search of Latin students willing to sell them some delicious cookie
   dough. The Latin Club increased demand for the delicious goodies even
   more when they announced that they would be selling the dough of
   revered community member, Colleen Kell, who, besides her successful
   career as a fifth grade teacher, is also a licensed food preparer. Mrs.
   Kell's cookie dough has long been reputed superior to the dough of
   other distributors. The St. Andrew's Latin Club has expressed great joy
   at the quality of the product they are distributing and are looking
   forward to great success. Community members can get their hands on some
   delicious dough by finding an Upper or Middle School Latin student and
   ordering from them, or by visiting the Latin Department's website,
   saslatin.org (see link above). Do not miss out on this great
   opportunity; the sale ends on October 27th.
   prid. Non.
   Aug.
   4 Aug 10

St. Andrew's Latin Club Ventures to Fargo, Brings Home National Certamen
Championship

   Eighteen members of the St. Andrew's Latin Club participated in the
   2010 National Junior Classical League convention that was held at North
   Dakota State University in Fargo from July 26th to August 1st. While
   all of the students excelled in their individual academic and art
   contests, the Advanced Certamen team won the National Certamen
   Championship. In addition to their individual contests, students
   assembled for state fellowship meetings and general assemblies, where
   they competed to show their spirit. On the final day, students marched
   in the Day in Old Rome Procession through campus while wearing their
   best Roman costumes along with approximately 1500 other Latin students
   from across the nation. This trip to the Midwest also included seeing
   the Mall of America in Minneapolis and a day of fun at Valleyfair
   Amusement park.
   The advanced certamen team from St. Andrew's, two-time defending state
   champions, represented the entire state of Texas in this very heated
   competition. Scott Dollen, Matthew Miller, Mason Osborn, and Reid
   Swanger were the primary players with Colin Vanderburg, Rachel Deleery,
   Ale Fairchild from Reagan in San Antonio and Andrew Margrave from St.
   Mary's Hall in San Antonio, serving as alternates. (It is the
   prerogative of a state championship team to invite other outstanding
   players from around the state to play if they so choose.) The team
   played three preliminary rounds on Wednesday and Thursday, racking up
   as many points as possible to gain a favorable position in the
   semifinal bracket. The team advanced as the third seed into the
   semifinal where they played teams from New Hampshire and the certamen
   powerhouse state of Virginia. After a slow start against Virginia, the
   team pulled ahead by 70 at the end of the match for a place in finals.
   The team then faced two other certamen powerhouses--Wisconsin and
   Florida. Both our team and Florida struggled to score many points early
   in the round as Wisconsin pulled ahead. Halfway through the match
   things began to turn around, and our boys gained confidence when Reid
   Swanger correctly answered a literature question on a great buzz. Soon
   after, Mason Osborn correctly answered a question about a lengthy Latin
   passage. Mason answered the "passage" question correctly in every round
   of National competition. Quite an accomplishment! Matthew Miller
   continued the rebound when he correctly guessed the end of a Latin
   translation on a very early buzz. However, the score remained close.
   With three questions left in the match, Scott Dollen answered a
   mythology question correctly and pulled his team into the lead. The
   final question was heart-stopping as Wisconsin signaled first but was
   unable to answer correctly and gain enough points for the win. As
   Florida was answering the final question, the Texas supporters began
   celebrating knowing that our team had already won with a final score of
   Texas-90, Wisconsin-80, Florida-70.
   At the final awards ceremony the team received the Maureen O'Donnell
   memorial traveling trophy to bring home and a $500 prize to use as they
   please. Traditionally the winning team donates this monetary award to
   the charity of their choice. Our team chose one close to the heart of
   the St. Andrew's community--The Gazelle Foundation--the benefits of
   which they described with pride in their acceptance speech to the
   entire assembly of convention attendees. Additionally 2010 graduate
   Matthew Miller was named Certamen MVP for his particularly impressive
   performance in the final match.
   This is the second National Certamen Championship for St. Andrew's
   students in the school's history, the first having been just six years
   before in 2004. Three of the members of that 2004 team who are now St.
   Andrew's Latin teachers--Lauren Dill, Nathan Michaud, and Andrew
   Rist--served as coaches along with Latin department head Jennie Luongo.
   The team would also like to thank 2008 SAS grad Philip Swanger for his
   help during practices before and during convention as well as their
   peers who attended practices and supported during the tournament. Of
   course the players are ultimately grateful to their wonderful and
   supporting parents who helped feed the team throughout the long hours
   leading up to their success this summer.
   Additionally, there were many outstanding individual performances.
   Sarah Thompson, who served as Texas State JCL newsletter editor for the
   2009-2010 school year, received first place in the national publication
   contest. Ali Campion also placed 10th in overall creative arts
   sweepstakes. Reid Swanger placed fifth in Decathlon, the most
   challenging test at the convention, and won $100 cash for that
   accomplishment.
   Complete NJCL Contest Results:
   FIRST PLACE
   Dramatic Interpretation Poetry Level 3 Girls Ali Campion
   Roman Life Level 5Scott Dollen
   Reading Comprehension Poetry Level 5Mason Osborn
   Cartoons Grades 11-12 Colin Vanderburg
   SECOND PLACE
   Sight Latin Recitation Poetry Level 3 Girls Ali Campion
   Latin Grammar Advanced Level 5 Matthew Miller
   Reading Comprehension Prose Level 5 Matthew Miller
   Classical Art Level 5 Mason Osborn
   Sight Latin Recitation Level 1 Girls Catherine Pace
   Roman History Level 5 Reid Swanger
   THIRD PLACE
   Mythology Level 5 Scott Dollen
   Mottoes Level 5 Matthew Miller
   Open Certamen Intermediate Level Cameron Osborn
   Latin Literature Level 5 Reid Swanger
   Mottoes Level 5 Reid Swanger
   FOURTH PLACE
   Open Certamen Intermediate Level Connor Butler
   Classical Art Level 3 Rachel Deleery
   Sight Latin Recitation Poetry Level 5 Boys Matthew Miller
   Latin Grammar Advanced Level 5 Mason Osborn
   Dolls Grade 10 Catherine Pace
   Ancient Geography Level 5 Reid Swanger
   Roman Life Level 5 Reid Swanger
   FIFTH PLACE
   English Oratory Middle Division Connor Butler
   Greek Life and Literature Level 3 Rachel Deleery
   Academic Decathlon Reid Swanger
   SIXTH PLACE
   Essay Grade 9 Boys Sam Andrews
   Mythology Level 3 Rachel Deleery
   Greek Life and Literature Level 5 Scott Dollen
   Mottoes Level 5 Scott Dollen
   Classical Art Level 5 Matthew Miller
   Computer Enhanced Photography Grade 10 Emma Richardson
   Academic Heptathlon Level 5 Reid Swanger
   Reading Comprehension Prose Level 5 Reid Swanger
   Reading Comprehension Prose Level 4 Colin Vanderburg
   SEVENTH PLACE
   Academic Decathlon Scott Dollen
   Latin Derivatives Level 5 Scott Dollen
   Latin Literature Level 5 Scott Dollen
   Roman Life Level 1/2 Colin Hancock
   Latin Vocabulary Level 5 Matthew Miller
   Latin Vocabulary Level 5 Mason Osborn
   Latin Derivatives Level 5 Reid Swanger
   Latin Derivatives Level 4 Colin Vanderburg
   EIGHTH PLACE
   Modern Myth - Middle Division Rachel Deleery
   Latin Vocabulary Level 5 Scott Dollen
   Academic Heptathlon Level 1/2 Logan Giberson
   Small Models Grades 7-9 Colin Hancock
   Latin Derivatives Level 5 Mason Osborn
   Hellenic History Level 5 Reid Swanger
   Mythology Level 5 Reid Swanger
   Reading Comprehension Poetry Level 5 Reid Swanger
   NINTH PLACE
   English Oratory - Lower Division Sam Andrews
   Greeting Cards Grade 10 Connor Butler
   Academic Heptathlon Level 5 Scott Dollen
   Roman History Level 1/2 Colin Hancock
   Traditional Photography Grade 11 Mason Osborn
   Latin Vocabulary Level 5 Reid Swanger
   Classical Art Level 2 Trace Turner
   Essay Grade 11 Boys Colin Vanderburg
   TENTH PLACE
   Large Models Grade 7-9 Logan Giberson
   Greek Life and Literature Level 4 Colin Vanderburg
   a. d. VI
   Kal. Apr.
   27 Mar 10

Advanced Certamen Team Wins Back-To-Back State Championships; Upper School
Latin Students Win Sweepstakes Award at State JCL Convention

   On March 25 and 27, St. Andrew's upper school students competed at the
   Texas State Junior Classical League convention at Lake Travis High
   School. Students participated in academic, artistic, and athletic
   contests.
   St. Andrew's students competed in both the intermediate and advanced
   levels of certamen. The advanced division team was composed entirely of
   St. Andrew's students: Scott Dollen, Matt Miller, Mason Osborn, and
   captain Reid Swanger, with alternates Colin Vanderburg, Rachel Deleery,
   Ali Campion, and Emma Richardson. The intermediate division team
   included five St. Andrew's students: Connor Butler and Cameron Osborn
   as starters, and alternates Charlie Dennis, Rachel Dimston, and Trace
   Turner. The team also included players from Hill Country Christian
   Academy: Shane Jasek, Laura Mahaney, and Jonathan Mitchell. The
   Advanced level team persevered to overcome an initial deficit and to
   win first place by 120. It is their second state championship in a row!
   They will continue on to Nationals. Congratulations to these Certamen
   players!
   Rachel Deleery, class of 2012, ran an excellent campaign for Historian
   and was elected. She will serve on the 2010-2011 TSJCL Executive Board.
   Three students won awards for having the highest score for their
   individual contests in any level: Scott Dollen in Mythology, Matthew
   Miller in Grammar, and Ali Campion in Sight Recitation. In addition,
   Matthew Miller had the highest score of any level V student on the
   Pentathlon, the one test everyone at the convention takes.
   Overall, the school placed 4th in Upper Division Sweepstakes, making us
   the highest-ranked Austin-area school, as well as the highest-ranked
   SPC school.
   Here are the complete results:
   First Place
   Ali Campion Sight Recitation 3
   Scott Dollen Mythology 5
   Matthew Miller Advanced Grammar 5
   Matthew Miller Vocabulary 5
   Mason Osborn Reading Comprehension Poetry 5
   Reid Swanger Roman History 5
   Emily Dodds Softball Throw, HS Girls
   Mason Osborn Frisbee Throw, HS Boys
   Second Place
   Ali Campion Girls' Dramatic Interpretation 3
   Richard Dietz Mottoes 4
   Scott Dollen Roman Life 5
   Mason Osborn Reading Comprehension Prose 5
   Reid Swanger Decathlon 5
   Ali Campion Play
   Caroline Dill Traditional Photography
   William Howard Play
   Mason Osborn Digital Photography
   Will Pearson Play
   Trace Turner Play
   Third Place
   Rachel Deleery Greek Life and Literature 3
   Rachel Dimston Roman Life 3
   Reeves Smith Mottoes 2
   Daniel Martens Ancient Geography 3
   Fourth Place
   Emma Richardson Advanced Grammar 3
   Colin Vanderburg Advanced Grammar 4
   Lila Brand-Schmitz Vocal Ensemble
   Ali Campion Vocal Ensemble
   Richard Dietz Vocal Ensemble
   Conor Keelan Vocal Ensemble
   Annie Osborne Vocal Ensemble
   Will Pearson Vocal Ensemble
   Peter Steinbach Vocal Ensemble
   Erica Weisman Vocal Ensemble
   Sarah Thompson Mosaics
   Fifth Place
   Seth Davis Boys' Dramatic Interpretation 2
   Robert Luke Roman History 2
   Catherine Pace Sight Recitation 1
   Sixth Place
   Charlie Dennis Advanced Grammar 2
   Richard Dietz Latin Derivatives 4
   Rachel Deleery Mythology 3
   Bryant Bowyer Roman History 3
   Kendle Windham Roman Life 3
   Lila Brand-Schmitz Greek Life and Literature 1
   Christian Stull Greek Derivatives 4
   Colin Vandergurg Sight Recitation 4
   William Howard Decathlon 2
   Jade Ross Reading Comprehension Poetry 3
   Seventh Place
   Austin Tedesco Latin Derivatives 5
   Jose Lopez Sight Recitation 2
   Annie Osborne Girls' Dramatic Interpretation 1
   Bryant Bowyer Decathlon 3
   Connor Butler Latin Oratory 2
   Jade Ross Essay
   Gabriela Hindera Original Oratory
   Eighth Place
   Emma Richardson Latin Derivatives 3
   Jade Ross Mottoes 3
   Trace Turner Mythology 2
   William Pearson Greek History 2
   Gabriela Hindera Three Dimensional Art
   Ninth Place
   Andy Newell Grammar 1
   Lila Brand-Schmitz Roman Life 1
   Conor Keelan Greek History 3
   Ingrid Hoff Oil and Acrylic
   Sarah Thompson Girls' Costume
   Tenth Place
   Nicholas Siegele Vocabulary 4
   Garrett Holody Latin Literature 4
   Garrett Holody Greek History 4
   Ali Campion Vocal Solo
   Students receiving summa cum laude awards for the Pentathlon: Sam
   Andrews, Bryant Bowyer, Connor Butler, Ali Campion, Rachel Deleery,
   Charlie Dennis, Richard Dietz, Rachel Dimston, Scott Dollen, William
   Howard, Robert Luke, Daniel Martens, Matthew Miller (highest score in
   level 5), Cameron Osborn, Mason Osborn, Annie Osborne, Will Pearson,
   Emma Richardson, Reid Swanger, Trace Turner, Kendle Windham.
   Students receiving maxima cum laude awards for the Pentathlon: Patrick
   Davis, Seth Davis, Ingrid Hoff, Conor Keelan, Jose Lopez, Mason Neal,
   Nick Siegele, Peter Steinbach, Colin Vanderburg.
   Students receiving magna cum laude awards for the Pentathlon: Andrea
   DelVesco, Gabbie Hindera, Cristian Koitzsch, Tucker Long, Catherine
   Pace, Max Schotz, Sarah Thompson.
   Students receiving cum laude awards for the Pentathlon: Judith Allen,
   Lila Brand-Schmitz, Taylor Dill, Emily Dodds, Eliana Gill, Garrett
   Holody, Anna Richards, Austin Tedesco, Erica Weisman.
   The Latin teachers would like to thank Duke Njie, Claudia Dollen, Chris
   Miller, and Donna Osborn for chaperoning this trip. Thanks also to all
   the parents who donated food and showed up to watch Certamen finals.
   Good luck to all as we prepare for Nationals this summer at North
   Dakota State University in Fargo.
   a. d. IIII
   Kal. Mar.
   26 Feb 10

St. Andrew's Wins Baylor Latin Day Competition

   On Friday, February 26, upper schoolers Matthew Miller, Colin
   Vanderburg, Trace Turner, Robert Luke, Charlie Dennis, Conor Butler,
   Eliana Gill, Catherine Pace, Ali Campion, and Rachel Deleery went to
   Baylor Latin Day. The event includes a certamen competition, a Latin
   verb parsing bee, and a noun declining bee, along with a Plautine play
   and an oral Latin workshop. Matthew Miller placed first in the verb
   parsing bee, and Colin Vandeburg placed fourth in the same event. The
   certamen team won first coming from behind to beat our rivals from Hill
   Country Christian School. It was a great competition and great fun was
   had by all!
   a. d. IIII
   Kal. Mar.
   26 Feb 10

St. Andrew's Wins Baylor Latin Day Competition

   On Friday, February 26, upper schoolers Matthew Miller, Colin
   Vanderburg, Trace Turner, Robert Luke, Charlie Dennis, Conor Butler,
   Eliana Gill, Catherine Pace, Ali Campion, and Rachel Deleery went to
   Baylor Latin Day. The event includes a certamen competition, a Latin
   verb parsing bee, and a noun declining bee, along with a Plautine play
   and an oral Latin workshop. Matthew Miller placed first in the verb
   parsing bee, and Colin Vandeburg placed fourth in the same event. The
   certamen team won first coming from behind to beat our rivals from Hill
   Country Christian School. It was a great competition and great fun was
   had by all!
   a. d. IIII
   Kal. Mar.
   26 Feb 10

Upper School wins area Latin sweepstakes

   On Friday, February 19 and Saturday, February 20 the St. Andrew's Upper
   and Middle School Latin Clubs attended Area F Latin Convention hosted
   this year on the Upper School campus. Our Middle School certamen team
   of Asa Buehler, Nick Fox, Logan Giberson, and Julia Josowitz, along
   with alternates Sam Martens, Lancer Sharp, and Evan Young reached
   finals and won 2nd place. Our Novice certamen team composed of Andy
   Newell, Catherine Pace, Eliana Gill, and Annie Osborne advanced to
   finals and won second place. The Intermediate team of Connor Butler,
   Robert Luke, Cameron Osborn, Trace Turner, and alternates Gabi Hindera,
   Reeves Smith, Charlie Dennis, and Rachel Dimston took 2nd, and will be
   eligible to compete for spots on the team that will represent our area
   at the state convention. The Advanced certamen team composed of Reid
   Swanger, Matt Miller, Mason Osborn, Scott Dollen, and alternates Emma
   Richardson, Ali Campion, Rachel Deleery, and Colin Vanderburg won first
   place and will represent the area at the state tournament.
   As a team, St. Andrew's Upper School took first in the overall academic
   sweepstakes by 98 points. The Middle School placed 5th. Four students
   were recognized for having the highest score at any level on their
   tests: Mason Osborn for Reading Comprehension in both the poetry and
   prose tests; Scott Dollen for Roman Life; Matthew Miller for Grammar,
   Ali Campion for Girls' Dramatic Interpretation, and Reid Swanger for
   the Decathlon. Reid was named the Armadillo Classical Society's Senior
   Scholar as the most outstanding Latin student at the convention, and
   Matthew Miller was awarded the ACS Senior College Scholarship.
   The individual awards follow.
   Academic contests
   First place:
   Asa Buehler Roman History 1/2 A
   Jared Samuels Greek Life and Literature 1/2 B
   Andy Newell Elementary Grammar 1
   Annie Osborne Mythology 1
   Eliana Gill Decathlon 1
   Rachel Dimston Roman Life 2
   Robert Luke Roman History 2
   Jose Lopez Sight Recitation 2
   Seth Davis Boys Dramatic Interpretation 2
   Connor Butler Latin Oratory 2
   Daniel Martens Geography 3
   Mason Osborn Reading Comprehension - Prose 5+
   Colin Vanderburg Sight Recitation 4
   Reid Swanger Decathlon 5+
   Matthew Miller Advanced Grammar 5+
   Scott Dollen Mythology 5+
   Scott Dollen Roman Life 5+
   Reid Swanger Roman History 5+
   Mason Osborn Reading Comprehension - Poetry 5+
   Ali Campion Girls' Dramatic Interpretation 3
   Second place:
   John Sealy Greek Derivatives 1/2 A
   Sara Thiessen Vocabulary 1/2 A
   Nick Fox Decathlon 1/2 B
   Lila Brand Schmidt Roman Life 1
   Andy Newell Decathlon 1
   Catherine Pace Sight Recitation 1
   Charlie Dennis Advanced Grammar 2
   Alex Adams Latin Literature 2
   Will Pearson Greek History 2
   William Howard Decathlon 2
   Emma Richardson Advanced Grammar 3
   Rachel Deleery Mythology 3
   Richard Dietz Latin Derivatives 4
   Katherine Stegmann Vocabulary 4
   Garrett Holody Latin Literature 4
   Richard Dietz Mottoes 4
   Matthew Miller Decathlon 5+
   Third place:
   Ana Marcks Latin Derivatives 1/2 A
   Logan Giberson Mythology 1/2 A
   Colin Hancock Geography 1/2 A
   Chloe Denham Latin Derivatives 1/2 B
   Chloe Denham Greek Derivatives 1/2 B
   Nick Fox Vocabulary 1/2 B
   Jared Samuels Greek History 1/2 B
   Sam Fason Geography 1/2 B
   Gillean Kelly Sight Recitation 1/2 B
   Christian Koitzsch Latin Literature 2
   Sam Andrews Decathlon 2
   Max Schotz Greek Life and Literature 2
   Reeves Smith Mottoes 2
   Kendle Windham Roman Life 3
   Katie Cooke Latin Literature 3
   Bryant Bowyer Roman History 3
   Jade Ross Mottoes 3
   Conor Keelan Geography 3
   Ali Campion Sight Recitation 3
   Colin Vanderburg Advanced Grammar 4
   Stephen Barron Greek History 4
   Rachel Deleery Greek Life and Literature 3
   Classical Civilization contests:
   1st place:
   Peter Steinbach, Richard Dietz, Will Pearson, Conor Keelan, Lila
   Brand-Schmitz, Erica Wiesman, Annie Osborne, Ali Campion, Eliana Gill,
   Ashley Dill Vocal Ensemble
   Nancy Waring Polychromatic Art
   2nd place:
   Ali Campion, Trace Turner, William Howard, Will Pearson Play
   Christine Snitkjaer Monochromatic Art
   Annie Osborn Couples Costume
   Ali Campion Vocal Solo
   3rd place:
   Conor Keelan Vocal Solo
   Olympika:
   1st place:
   Meredith Stark Girls 50 M
   Brendan Ingram Boys Softball Throw
   Meredith Stark Girls Softball Throw
   2nd place:
   Meredith Stark Girls 100 M
   Christina Stull Girls 200 M
   Jade Ross Girls Softball Throw
   3rd place:
   Rachel Deleery Girls Frisbee Throw
   On the Pentathlon, the one test taken by everyone at the convention,
   Catherine Pace and Eliana Gill tied for the high score in Level 1.
   Connor Butler had the high score in Level 2, and Reid Swanger had the
   high score in Level 5. Other Pentathlon results:
   Summa cum laude: Annie Osborne, Eliana Gill, Catherine Pace, Patrick
   Davis, Connor Butler, Nicholas Siegele, Stephen Barron, Richard Dietz,
   Scott Dollen, Matthew Miller, Mason Osborn, Reid Swanger, Conor Keelan,
   Jade Ross, Bryant Bowyer, Ali Campion, Emma Richardson, Rachel Deleery,
   Andy Newell, Rachel Dimston, Will Pearson, Trace Turner, William
   Howard, Cameron Osborn, Reeves Smith, Logan Giberson, Nick Fox
   Maxima cum laude: Justin Ingram, Samuel Leonard, Colin Feo, Meredith
   Stark, Colin Vanderburg, Nancy Wareing, Katie Cooke, Kendle Windham,
   Will Dodds, Daniel Martens, Lila Brand Schmitz, Ingrid Hoff, Jose
   Lopez, Robert Luke, Andrea DelVesco, Sam Andrews, Charlie Dennis, Seth
   Davis, Tucker Long, Parker Kell, As Buehler, Simran Frontain, Ana
   Marcks, Annika Mele, John Sealy, Christopher Snitkjaer, Evan Young, Sam
   Faosn, Gillean Kelly, Michelle Robles, Jared Samuels
   Magna cum laude: Katie Newell, Christine Snitkjaer, Ashley Dill, Taylor
   Dill, Emily Dodds, Christian Koitzsch, Judith Allen, Sarah Thompson,
   Garrett Holody, Katherine Stegmann, Christina Stull, James Stark,
   Austin Tedesco, Anna Richards, Gabriela Hindera, Alex Adams, Kathryn
   McDonald, Max Schotz, Mason Neal, Caroline Dill, Colin Hancock, Kathryn
   Gernstein, Sam Marten, Sara Thiessen, Annie Tate Cockrum, Patrick
   Dunham, Callie Evarts, Julia Josowitz, Charhong Quach, Tristan Reed,
   Lance Sharp
   Cum laude: Seamus Gude, Peter Steinbach, Sam Stephenson, Brendan
   Ingram, Christopher Dill, Erica Weisman, Callie McConnico, Bonham
   Duncan, Madeleine Mele, Chloe Denham, Noah Ford
   prid. Kal.
   Nov.
   31 Oct 09

Advanced Certamen Team from St. Andrew's Wins Year's First Certamen
Tournament

   On Saturday, October 31st, the St. Andrew's Upper School and Middle
   Schools sent teams to compete at the Hill Country Middle School
   Certamen Meet, affectionately known as Cougartamen. The six teams
   competed early that Halloween morning with tough competition from
   opposing middle and high school teams of all levels. St. Andrew's
   entered teams in all levels (Novice, Middle School, Intermediate and
   Advanced) and did very well in all of them.
   Our Novice team played very well, took 2nd place. This team included
   Andy Newell and Eliana Gill. The match was very tough, and our team
   narrowly missed first place, just five points shy of tieing.
   The intermediate team, consisting of Connor Butler, Robert Luke,
   Cameron Osborn, Reeves Smith, and Trace Turner also competed and won
   second place, losing only to Hill Country Christian.
   Two teams from the Upper School competed in the Advanced category: the
   Blue Team and the White Team, named in honor of our school colors. Ali
   Campion, Emma Richardson, Daniel Martens and Jade Ross represented the
   Blue team, and Scott Dollen, Reid Swanger, Rachel Deleery, and Mason
   Osborn represented the While Team. The White Team advanced to the
   finals, beating the other two finalists, Hill County Christian and
   Westlake, by a margine of over one hundred points.
   The two teams from the Middle School that competed included 7th graders
   Asa Buehler, Logan Giberson, and Sam Martens, and 8th graders Evan
   Benitez-Young, Patrick Dunham, Nick Fox, Julia Josowitz, and Lancer
   Sharp. Both teams played very well against other the middle school
   teams, but narrowly missed earning enough points to make it into the
   final round.
   Gratulamus omnibus vobis.
   Kal
   Aug.
   1 Aug 09

St. Andrew's Latin Club Attends National Junior Classical League Convention

   Thirty-three members of the St. Andrew's Latin Club participated in the
   2009 National Junior Classical League convention that was held at the
   University of California at Davis from July 27th to August 1st.
   Participants competed in athletics (such as swimming, soccer, and
   ultimate Frisbee), art contests, and daily academic exams. Many of the
   students placed in the top ten of their respective competitions,
   including Academic Tests, Graphic Arts, Writing Competitions, and Ludi
   Sports. Students also assembled for state fellowship and general
   assemblies, where they competed to show their spirit for their state,
   and marched in the Spirit Procession wearing their best Roman costumes
   along with about 1500 other Latin students from across the nation. The
   trip also included seeing the redwood sequoias at Muir Woods, a day at
   Discovery Kingdom in Vallejo, and sightseeing in San Francisco.
   All of the members of Texas's Advanced Certamen team were St. Andrew's
   students. Scott Dollen, Matthew Miller, Duke Njie, Mason Osborn, Reid
   Swanger, and Elisa Turner reached the semi-finals of the competition
   and placed fifth. Connor Butler was a member of the state's Novice
   Certamen team, which placed third in the nation. He was joined by three
   players from Hill Country Christian School, and Trace Turner, Robert
   Luke, and Rachel Dimston served as alternates.
   Upper school Latin teacher Jennie Luongo was named a "Summa Cum Laude
   Junior Classical League Sponsor." This award is given to sponsors who
   have given extraordinary service to the JCL on the local, state, and
   national levels.
   Full results:
   FIRST PLACE
   Mythology Level 4 Scott Dollen
   Latin Derivatives Level 1/2 Nick Fox
   Grammar Level 4 Matthew Miller
   Small Models Grade 7-9 Hugo Nakashima-Brown
   Computer Photography Grade 11 Mason Osborn
   Slogan Sarah Thompson
   SECOND PLACE
   English Oratory Level 1 Connor Butler
   Marathon Jr. Boys William Howard
   Slogan Cameron Kell
   Grammar Level 4 Mason Osborn
   50 yd Breaststroke Jr. Girls Jade Ross
   Latin Literature Level 4 Reid Swanger
   THIRD PLACE
   Certamen Novice Connor Butler
   Open Certamen Intermediate Rachel Deleery
   Ultimate Frisbee Richard Dietz
   Games Grade 11 Richard Dietz
   Certamen Novice Rachel Dimston
   Essay Grade 7-8 girls Rachel Dimston
   Ultimate Frisbee Cameron Kell
   Certamen Novice Robert Luke
   Mottoes Level 4 Matthew Miller
   Ultimate Frisbee Duke Njie
   100 yd IM Jr. Girls Jade Ross
   Certamen Novice Trace Turner
   FOURTH PLACE
   Classical Art Level 2 Rachel Deleery
   Greek Life and Lit Level 1/2 Patrick Dunham
   Latin Derivatives Level 5 Duke Njie
   Vocabulary Level 4 Mason Osborn
   Multimedia Grade 7-9 Nick Osella
   Roman History Level 4 Reid Swanger
   FIFTH PLACE
   English Oratory Lower Sam Andrews
   Greeting Cards Grade 7-9 Connor Butler
   Roman Life Level 4 Scott Dollen
   Certamen Advanced Scott Dollen
   Roman Life Level 1/2 Patrick Dunham
   Heptathlon Level 1/2 Patrick Dunham
   Vocabulary Level 1/2 Nick Fox
   Computer Photography Grade 7-9 William Howard
   Reading Comp Poetry Level 4 Matthew Miller
   Certamen Advanced Matthew Miller
   Vocabulary Level 5 Duke Njie
   Certamen Advanced Duke Njie
   Certamen Advanced Mason Osborn
   Essay Grade 9 girls Jade Ross
   Certamen Advanced Reid Swanger
   Traditional Scrapbook Large Sarah Thompson
   Certamen Advanced Elisa Turner
   Roman History Level 1/2 Evan Young
   SIXTH PLACE
   Latin Derivatives Level 1 Sam Andrews
   Cartoons Grade 7-9 Connor Butler
   Sight Latin Reading Level 2 Ali Campion
   Dolls Grade 7-9 Ali Campion
   Slogan Rachel Deleery
   Decorative Stitching Grade 7-9 Rachel Deleery
   Roman History Level 1/2 Chloe Denham
   Sight Latin Reading Level 1/2 Patrick Dunham
   Mottoes Level 1/2 Nick Fox
   Vocabulary Level 4 Matthew Miller
   Mottoes Level 5 Duke Njie
   Sculpture Grade 7-9 Nick Osella
   Traditional Photography Grade 7-9 Nick Osella
   Games Grade 11 Sarah Thompson
   Mottoes Level 4 Elisa Turner
   SEVENTH PLACE
   Greek Life and Lit Level 1 Connor Butler
   Sight Latin Reading Boys Prose Level 3 Richard Dietz
   Sight Latin Reading Girls Level 1 Rachel Dimston
   Heptathlon Level 1/2 Nick Fox
   Latin Derivatives Level 4 Matthew Miller
   Roman Life Level 4 Reid Swanger
   Illustrated Quotations Grade 7-9 Trace Turner
   Sight Latin Reading Boys Level 1/2 Evan Young
   Mottoes Level 1/2 Evan Young
   EIGHTH PLACE
   Illustrated Quotations Grade 7-9 Ali Campion
   Mythology Level 2 Rachel Deleery
   Latin Derivatives Level 3 Richard Dietz
   Reading Comprehension Level 1/2 Patrick Dunham
   Greek Derivatives Level 1/2 Nick Fox
   Sight Latin Reading Boys Level 2 Jose Lopez
   Roman History Level 1/2 Charhong Quach
   Roman Life Level 1/2 Charhong Quach
   50 yd Freestyle Jr. Girls Jade Ross
   Ancient Geography Level 4 Reid Swanger
   Mythology Level 4 Elisa Turner
   NINTH PLACE
   Reading Comprehension Level 1 Sam Andrews
   Mottoes Level 3 Richard Dietz
   Roman Life Level 1/2 Chloe Denham
   Greek Derivatives Level 1/2 Patrick Dunham
   Roman Life Level 1/2 Nick Fox
   Reading Comp Poetry Level 4 Ryan Greenwell
   Ancient Geography Level 1 Robert Luke
   Sight Latin Reading Boys Level 1 Cameron Osborn
   Traditional Photography Grade 7-9 Trace Turner
   TENTH PLACE
   Essay Grade 7-8 boys Sam Andrews
   Ancient Geography Level 1 Connor Butler
   Latin Oratory Level 1 Connor Butler
   Dolls Grade 7-9 Rachel Deleery
   Latin Derivatives Level 1/2 Patrick Dunham
   Latin Derivatives Level 4 Mason Osborn
   a. d. III
   Kal. Apr.
   30 Mar 09

St. Andrew's students compete at state Latin convention

   St. Andrew's Upper School students advance to nationals in two
   divisions of certamen.
   On March 27 and 28, St. Andrew's upper school students competed at the
   Texas State Junior Classical League convention at SMU in Dallas.
   Students participated in academic, artistic, and athletic contests.
   Two Austin area "all-star" teams won the state Certamen tournament and
   will represent Texas at Nationals this summer. The advanced division
   team was composed entirely of St. Andrew's students: Scott Dollen, Matt
   Miller, Duke Njie, Mason Osborn, and captain Reid Swanger. The novice
   division team included three St. Andrew's students: Connor Butler, a
   starter, and alternates Jose Lopez and Patrick Davis. The team also
   included players from Hill Country Christian Academy: Steven Baker,
   Thomas Ebner, Shane Jasek, Christian Johnson, Laura Mahaney, and
   Jonathan Mitchell. This is the first time that two Austin-area teams
   have advanced to Nationals in the same year. Congratulations to these
   Certamen players!
   Three students won awards for having the highest score for their
   individual contests in any level: Scott Dollen in Mythology, Matthew
   Miller in Grammar, and Colin Vanderburg in Sight Recitation. In
   addition, Reid Swanger had the highest score of any level IV student on
   the Pentathlon, the one test everyone at the convention takes.
   Here are the complete results:
   First Place
   Megan Bentzin Girls 200 M Dash
   Megan Bentzin Ludi Basketball
   Rachel Deleery Open Certamen
   Caroline Dill Traditional Photography
   Scott Dollen Mythology 4
   Ryan Greenwell Ludi Basketball
   Matthew Miller Grammar Advanced 4
   Matthew Miller Latin Derivatives 4
   Mason Neal Ludi Basketball
   Duke Njie Ludi Basketball
   Kate Steinbach Ludi Basketball
   Reid Swanger Ludi Basketball
   Sarah Thompson Scrapbook
   Colin Vanderburg Sight Recitation 3
   Second Place
   Blair Campion Dramatic Interpretation Advanced - Girls 4
   Rachel Deleery Mythology 2
   Richard Dietz Mottoes 3
   Cameron Kell Roman History 4
   Jose Lopez Sight Recitation 1
   Duke Njie Mottoes 5
   Anna Richards Sculpture
   Jade Ross Open Certamen
   Reid Swanger Latin Literature 4
   Third Place
   Megan Bentzin Girls 100 M Dash
   Ali Campion Sight Recitation 2
   Patrick Davis Grammar 1
   Rachel Deleery Greek Life and Literature 2
   Duke Njie Latin Derivatives 5
   Mason Osborn Reading Comprehension Advanced Poetry 4
   Emma Richardson Open Certamen
   Reid Swanger Decathlon 4
   Sarah Thompson Miscellaneous Art
   Colin Vanderburg Latin Derivatives 3
   Fourth Place
   Bryant Bowyer Decathlon 2
   Andrea Delvesco Reading Comprehension 1
   Scott Dollen Roman Life 4
   Daniel Martens Geography of the Ancient World 2
   Emma Richardson Grammar Advanced 2
   Peter Steinbach Boys 200 M Dash
   Fifth Place
   Blair Campion Sight Recitation (Poetry) 4
   Anna Richards Models
   Sixth Place
   Richard Dietz Decathlon 3
   Omead Ghodsi Boys 400 M Relay
   Ryan Greenwell Dramatic Interpretation Advanced - Boys 4
   Conor Keelan Boys 400 M Relay
   Kyle Kerr Boys 400 M Relay
   Jose Lopez Roman History 1
   Jose Lopez Boys 400 M Relay
   Christina Stull Greek Derivatives 3
   Seventh Place
   Megan Bentzin Reading Comprehension Advanced Poetry 3
   Blair Campion Vocal Solo
   Caroline Dill Poster
   Kate Steinbach Greek History 4
   Austin Tedesco Reading Comprehension Advanced Prose 4
   Eighth Place
   Taylor Dill Greek History 1
   Ninth Place
   Conor Keelan Vocal Ensemble
   Kate Steinbach Vocal Ensemble
   Peter Steinbach Vocal Ensemble
   Alex Wolford Greek Life and Literature 4
   Tenth Place
   Caroline Dill Roman Life 2
   Matthew Miller Original English Oratory
   Colin O'Brien Boys Costume
   Anna Richards Greek Derivatives 4
   Anna Richards Essay
   Christine Snitkjaer Mottoes 1
   Christine Snitkjaer Geography of the Ancient World 1
   Students receiving summa cum laude awards for the Pentathlon: Bryant
   Bowyer, Connor Bulter, Ali Campion, Blair Campion, Rachel Deleery,
   Andrea DelVesco, Richard Dietz, Kyle Hunt, Conor Keelan, Cameron Kell,
   Daniel Martens, Mason Osborn, Emma Richardson, Jade Ross, Peter
   Steinbach, Reid Swanger (highest score in level 4), Elisa Turner, Colin
   Vanderburg.
   Students receiving maxima cum laude awards for the Pentathlon: Judith
   Allen, Megan Bentzin, Scott Dollen, Colin O'Brien, Sammi Robles, Kate
   Steinbach, Kendle Windham, Alex Wolford.
   Students receiving magna cum laude awards for the Pentathlon: Daniel
   Albert, Caroline Dill, Bonham Duncan, Ryan Greenwell, Garrett Holody,
   Kyle Kerr, Matthew Miller, MaryHelen Murray, Duke Njie, Caroline
   Poteet, Anna Richards, Christine Snitkjar, Christina Stull, Austin
   Tedesco, Sarah Thompson.
   Students receiving cum laude awards for the Pentathlon: Omead Ghodsi,
   Jose Lopez, Katie Newell.
   Overall, the team placed 5th in Upper Division Sweepstakes, making us
   the highest-ranked Austin-area school as well as the highest-ranked SPC
   school.
   The Latin teachers would like to thank Shawna Butler, Peggy Dill,
   Lorena Garcia, Mark and Louise Michaud, and Donna Osborn for
   chaperoning this trip, and Marty Swanger and Donna Osborn for
   organizing the food for the trip. Thanks also to all the parents who
   donated food and showed up to watch Certamen finals. Good luck to all
   as we prepare for Nationals this summer at the University of
   California-Davis.
   MS Latin Students Earn High Sweepstakes Awards at State Latin
   Convention
   On Friday, March 27, twenty-four St. Andrew's Middle School Latin
   students departed for Dallas to attend the annual Texas State Junior
   Classical League (TSJCL) convention on the campus of Southern Methodist
   University. Our students' amazing success earned St. Andrew's the honor
   of fourth place in the novice division sweepstakes competition among
   all Texas middle schools in attendance.
   After our group visited a wonderful Etruscan exhibit at the Meadows
   Museum on the SMU campus, the weekend's competition kicked off with the
   Pentathlon, a five-category academic test that all students at the
   convention take.
   Competition continued on Saturday morning, when students competed in
   academic contests in various subjects such as Roman history and Latin
   vocabulary as well as reciting and pronouncing Latin passages. Some
   students participated in various visual and performing arts contests,
   with categories including everything from photography and pottery to
   vocal performance. Many of our students also competed in the athletic
   contests known as "Olympika" (track events) and "Ludi" (basketball,
   soccer, and volleyball).
   In addition to all of this competition, students met new friends at
   just-for-fun events such as Friday night's dance and Roman-themed movie
   screenings. One of our students even entered the convention talent show
   and won first place playing his electric guitar. Congratulations to Max
   Schotz!
   After the competition on Friday and Saturday, the group took a little
   more time on Sunday to visit the King Tut exhibit at the Dallas Museum
   of Art as well as some exhilarating roller-coasters at Six Flags before
   returning home Sunday evening. Congratulations to all of the students
   who participated. We look forward to hearing about more successes from
   these wonderful students at this summer's National Latin Convention in
   Davis, California.
   CONTEST RESULTS
   Overall Sweepstakes - Novice Division
   St. Andrew's Middle School: 4th place
   1st Place
   Ted Heydinger: Greek Life & Literature
   Gillean Kelly: Latin Sight Recitation
   Michelle Robles: Greek Life & Literature
   2nd Place
   Sam Andrews: Decathlon
   Clay Damron: State T-shirt Design
   Clay Damron: Electronic Artwork
   Patrick Dunham: Roman History
   Nick Fox: Decathlon
   Parker Kell: Latin Reading Comprehension
   3rd Place
   Rachel Dimston: Roman Life
   Rohaise Firth-Butterfield: Greek History
   William Howard: Latin Grammar
   Robert Luke: Roman History
   4th Place
   Patrick Dunham: Greek Derivatives
   Cameron Osborn: Greek Derivatives
   5th Place
   Callie Evarts: Latin Vocabulary
   Hugo Nakashima-Brown: Geography of the Ancient World
   Charhong Quach: Latin Grammar
   PENTATHALON
   Summa cum laude
   7th: Nick Fox, Charhong Quach
   8th: Sam Andrews, Rachel Dimston, William Howard, Robert Luke, Hugo
   Nakashima-Brown, Trace Turner
   Maxima cum laude
   7th: Michelle Robles
   8th: Charlie Dennis, Will Pearson
   Magna cum laude
   7th: Chloe Denham, Patrick Dunham, Gillean Kelly, Evan Young
   8th: Rohaise Firth-Butterfield, Parker Kell, Cameron Osborn
   Cum laude
   7th: Callie Evarts
   8th: Ashley Dill, Clay Damron, Ted Heydinger
   a. d. VIIII
   Kal. Feb.
   24 Jan 09

Certamen teams victorious at St. Gabriel's Tournament

   On Saturday, January 24th, St. Andrew's entered certamen teams at the
   St. Gabriel's certamen tournament in four levels: Advanced,
   Intermediate, Novice and Middle School levels.The Advanced team, with
   players Richard Dietz, Reid Swanger, Scott Dollen, Duke Njie, Matt
   Miller, and Elisa Turner, placed first. Junior Matt Miller said of the
   competition, "The LASA (LBJ) certamen team was the toughest team we
   played; we played pretty well against them, so I think we'll do well
   against them [at the Austin Area Competition]."
   The Intermediate team, consisting of Bryant Bowyer, Rachel Deleery and
   Emma Richardson, placed second.
   The Novice team, represented by Conner Butler and  Patrick Davis won
   first place.
   The St. Andrew's Middle School team also won the second place trophy.
   Will Pearson, Cameron Osborn, Charlie Dennis, and Robert Luke played.
   These teams will be representing us at the Austin Area Latin
   Competition, a competition to be held at Westwood High School on
   February 23-24th, 2009. They are expected to do well against difficult
   competitors. Bonam fortunam omnibus.
   a. d. XVII
   Kal. Dec.
   15 Nov 08

All Four St. Andrew's Teams Place at Hill Country MS Certamen Tournament

   On Saturday, November 15th, five teams representing the St. Andrew's
   Latin Club competed in all four levels of the certamen competition at
   Hill Country Middle School. Teams from middle schools and high schools
   all over the Austin area competed, and the four teams from the St.
   Andrew's school advanced to finals. The Middle School team consisting
   of Charlie Dennis, Rachel Dimston, Robert Luke, and Trace Turner placed
   third in a very competitive division.  The Novice team beat two other
   teams in finals, taking home first place. Connor Butler and Jose Lopez
   made up the Novice team. This is a huge accomplishment for this team as
   most teams consist of four players. The Lower team won second, narrowly
   losing to Hill Country Christian, and consisted of Bryant Bowyer,
   Rachel Deleery, Emma Richardson, and Kendall Windham. The Upper team,
   consisting of Richard Dietz, Scott Dollen, Matt Miller, Duke Njie, Reid
   Swanger, and Colin Vanderburg played a fierce competition, and
   ultimately won first by 245 points against LBJ and Westlake.
   a. d. VI
   Id. Nov.
   8 Nov 08

Advanced certamen first, intermediate third at Reagan Tourney

   On Saturday, November 8, four certamen teams from St. Andrew's Upper
   School arrived at Reagan High School in San Antonio at 7:00a.m. to
   compete in the Reagan High School Tournament. The intermediate team,
   representing their second year Latin classes, made it all the way to
   finals to take home a third place trophy. This team did incredibly well
   considering they consisted of only three people of a possible four.
   These students were sophomore Bryant Bowyer, and freshmen Kendle
   Windham and Emma Richardson. The advanced team, of seniors Duke Njie
   and Elisa Turner, and sophomores Scott Dollen and Reid Swanger, won
   first place. Congratulations to both teams!
   a. d. XI
   Kal. Nov.
   22 Oct 08

Advanced and Novice Certamen Teams Win First Tournament of Year

   The weekend of October the 18th, St. Andrew's co-hosted the annual
   Crusader Classic Certamen Tournament at the Upper School. Schools from
   both the Austin and San Antonio area attended. St. Andrew's had teams
   competing in all levels, and two of our teams won first place. One
   team, the Advanced team, consisting of Scott Dollen, Reid Swanger,
   Matthew Miller, and Elisa Turner, beat two San Antonio teams in the
   finals to take first place. "Reagan High School in San Antonio was a
   tough opponent," said Matt Miller, a Junior on the St. Andrew's Upper
   Team.  The Novice team, consisting of Patrick Davis, Mason Neil, Conner
   Butler, and Jose Lopez, also won. "It was a lot of fun and we did a lot
   good work," said Kate Steinbach, a senior and a class representative of
   her AP Vergil class who helped set up the competition rooms. Her
   teacher, Jennie Luongo, also said that it "ran smoothly.""It was a
   success," added upper school Latin teacher Clint Hagen.
   a. d. V
   Non. Aug.
   2 Aug 08

Students return from NJCL convention with many awards

   Twenty members of the St. Andrew's Latin Club participated in the 2008
   National Junior Classical League convention that was held at Miami
   University in Oxford, Ohio, from July 28th to August 2nd.Â
   Participants competed in athletics (such as swimming, basketball,
   soccer and ultimate Frisbee), art contests, and daily academic exams.Â
   Many of the students were placed in the top ten of their respective
   competitions, including Academic Tests, Graphic Arts, Writing
   Competitions, and Ludi Sports. Students also assembled for a state
   fellowship and general assemblies, where they competed to show their
   spirit for their state. Students also marched in the Spirit Procession
   wearing their best Roman costumes along with about 1500 other Latin
   students from across the nation. On their way to Oxford, the students
   stayed two days in Cincinnati, where they visited Kings Island
   amusement park and took in a baseball game at the Great America
   Ballpark.
   Several St. Andrew's students represented Texas on the state's Advanced
   Certamen team. Philip Swanger was a starter for the team and Reid
   Swanger, Kiran Rao, Matt Miller, and Scott Dollen were alternates. The
   team advanced to semi-finals before falling to eventual champions
   Virginia.
   Upper school Latin teacher Jennie Luongo, middle school Latin intern
   Lauren Dill '04, and Andrew Rist '05 were crowned champions in the
   World Series of Certamen, the adult division of Certamen. In doing so,
   their team (called "Cornua Longa" or Longhorns) defeated last year's
   champion as well as the Florida Juggernaut, who had defeated them in a
   preliminary round.
   Upper school Latin teacher Clint Hagen was named a "Summa Cum Laude
   Junior Classical League Sponsor." This award is given to sponsors who
   have given extraordinary service to the JCL on the local, state, and
   national levels.
   Full results:
   FIRST PLACE
   Rachel DeleeryÂ Decorative Stitching
   Richard DietzÂ Open Certamen Intermediate
   Anna RichardsÂ  Â Glass
   Philip SwangerÂ Latin Literature V+
   Reid SwangerÂ  Â Roman History III
   Sarah Thompson Â Dolls
   Christine Walsh Â 50 yd. Backstroke
   Christine Walsh Â 100 yd. Backstroke
   Christine Walsh Â 50 yd. Fly
   Â  Â
   SECOND PLACE
   Matt MillerÂ  Â Mottoes III
   Cameron OsbornÂ Greek Derivatives 1/2
   Anna RichardsÂ Jewelry
   Sarah Thompson ÃÂ ÃÂ  ÃÂ Glass
   Christine WalshÂ 50 yd. Breaststroke
   Christine WalshÂ 50 yd. Freestyle
   Christine WalshÂ 100 yd. Freestyle
   Christine Walsh Â 200 yd. Freestyle
   Christine Walsh Â 100 yd. Medley
   Duke NjieÂ Ludi Basketball
   Austin TedescoÂ Ludi Basketball
   THIRD PLACE
   Ali CampionÂ Sight Recitation I
   Scott DollenÂ Mythology III
   Mason OsbornÂ  Â Essay
   Mason OsbornÂ Reading Comprehension - Prose III
   Â
   FOURTH PLACE
   Richard DietzÂ Games
   Matt MillerÂ Reading Comprehension III
   Anna RichardsÂ Â Textiles
   Philip SwangerÂ Classical Art V+
   Sarah ThompsonÂ  Â Slogan
   FIFTH PLACE
   Ali CampionÂ Dramatic Interpretation Girls' I
   Richard DietzÂ Sight Recitation II
   Matthew MillerÂ English Oratory
   Mason OsbornÂ Grammar III
   Mason OsbornÂ Vocabulary III
   Kiran RaoÂ Latin Literature V+
   Kiran RaoÂ Mythology V+
   Anna RichardsÂ Dolls
   Reid SwangerÂ Latin Literature III
   Reid SwangerÂ Roman Life III
   Philip SwangerÂ Reading Comprehension-Prose V+
   Sarah ThompsonÂ Jewelry
   Trace TurnerÂ Classical Art 1/2
   SIXTH PLACE
   Matthew MillerÂ Vocabulary III
   Mason OsbornÂ Classical Art III
   Mason OsbornÂ Mottoes III
   Philip SwangerÂ Reading Comprehension ÃÆÃÂ¢ÃÂ¢Ã¢â¬Å¡ÃÂ¬" Poetry V+
   Trace TurnerÂ Traditional Photography
   SEVENTH PLACE
   Scott DollenÂ Latin Literature III
   Mason OsbornÂ Reading Comprehension ÃÆÃÂ¢ÃÂ¢Ã¢â¬Å¡ÃÂ¬" Poetry III
   Sarah ThompsonÂ Girls' Costume
   Elisa TurnerÂ Essay
   EIGHTH PLACE
   Rachel DeleeryÂ Mythology I
   Charlie DennisÂ 100 Meter Run
   Kiran RaoÂ Classical Art V+
   Philip SwangerÂ Vocabulary V+
   Elisa TurnerÂ Mythology III
   NINTH PLACE
   Ali CampionÂ Illustrated Quotations
   Kiran RaoÂ Latin Derivatives V+
   Kiran RaoÂ Essay
   Anna RichardsÂ Mosaics
   Reid SwangerÂ Academic Heptathlon III
   Austin TedescoÂ Essay
   Elisa TurnerÂ Mottoes III
   TENTH PLACE
   Richard DietzÂ Mottoes II
   Scott DollenÂ Roman Life III
   Matt MillerÂ Latin Literature III
   Kiran RaoÂ Reading Comprehension -Prose V+
   a. d. XII
   Kal. Iun.
   21 May 08

Cell phone drive a success

   Today, the Latin Club will be taking the 55 phones that we collected in
   our used cell phone drive to the Austin Police Department Victims'
   Services Unit to be distributed to those who need phones to be enable
   them to call 911. Many thanks to all who donated and to sophomore Sarah
   Thompson who led our efforts.
   Original content © 2007 St. Andrew's Episcopal School. JCL tests and
   Certamen rounds are public domain.
   Code by Clint Hagen, using the following libraries:
      [18]jQuery © John Resig and the jQuery team, used under [19]GPL.
   Content created by the St. Andrew's Episcopal School Latin Department:
   Jennie Luongo (chair), Gaylan DuBose, Lauren Dill, Clint Hagen, Nathan
   Michaud.
   This project was made possible by generous grants from the St. Andrew's
   Episcopal School Parents' Council.

References

   1. file:///index.php
   2. file:///home/mgomez/CS432/login/forgotpass.php
   3. file:///home/mgomez/CS432/login/register.php
   4. file:///club/index.php
   5. file:///club/banquet.php
   6. https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/podcasts/id702962844
   7. file:///podcasts/?p=archive&cat=all
   8. file:///magnificat
   9. file:///actestarchives.php
  10. file:///buybooks.php
  11. http://latin.sasaustin.org/placement.php
  12. http://www.njcl.org/
  13. http://www.tsjcl.org/
  14. http://www.thelatinlibrary.com/certamen/beginners.pdf
  15. http://www.thelatinlibrary.com/decl.html
  16. file:///review.php
  17. file:///podcasts/?p=archive&cat=all
  18. http://jquery.com/
  19. http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0-standalone.html
